Families can go along for years without ever facing theunderlying problems in their relationships. But sometimes a tragedy can bringeverything out in the open, all of sudden and painfully, just when everyone'smost vulnerable. Robert Redford's “Ordinary People” begins at a time like thatfor a family that loses its older son in a boating accident. That leaves threestill living at home in a perfectly manicured suburban existence, and the movieis about how they finally have to deal with the ways they really feel about oneanother. Advertisement There'sthe surviving son, who always lived in his big brother's shadow, who tried tocommit suicide after the accident, who has now just returned from a psychiatrichospital. There's the father, a successful Chicago attorney who has alwaystaken the love of his family for granted. There's the wife, an expensivelymaintained, perfectly groomed, cheerful homemaker whom "everyoneloves." The movie begins just as all of this is falling apart. The movie's central problems circle almost fearfully around the complexities oflove. The parents and their remaining child all "love" one another,of course. But the father's love for the son is sincere yet also inarticulate,almost shy. The son's love for his mother is blocked by his belief that shedoesn't really love him, she only loved the dead brother. And the love betweenthe two parents is one of those permanent facts that both take for granted andneither has ever really tested. “Ordinary People” begins with this three-way emotional standoff and develops itthrough the autumn and winter of one year. And what I admire most about thefilm is that it really does develop its characters and the changes they gothrough. So many family dramas begin with a "problem" and thenexamine its social implications in that frustrating semifactual, docudramaformat that's big on TV. “Ordinary People” isn't a docudrama; it's the story ofthese people and their situation, and it shows them doing what's most difficultto show in fiction, it shows them changing, learning, and growing. At the center of the change is the surviving son, Conrad, played by awonderfully natural young actor namedTimothy Hutton. He is absolutely torturedas the film begins; his life is ruled by fear, low self-esteem, and the correctperception that he is not loved by his mother. He starts going to apsychiatrist (Judd Hirsch) after school. Things are hard for this kid. Heblames himself for his brother's death. He's a semi-outcast at school becauseof his suicide attempt and hospitalization. He does have a few friends, a girlhe met at the hospital, and another girl who stands behind him at choirpractice and who would, in a normal year, naturally become his girlfriend. Butthere's so much turmoil at home. Advertisement The turmoil centers around the mother (Mary Tyler Moore, inspired casting forthis particular role, in which the character masks her inner sterility behind afacade of cheerful suburban perfection). She does a wonderful job of runningher house, which looks like it's out of the pages of Better Homes and Gardens.She's active in community affairs, she's an organizer, she's an ideal wife andmother, except that at some fundamental level she's selfish, she can't reallygive of herself, and she has, in fact, always loved the dead older son more.The father (Donald Sutherland) is one of those men who wants to do and feel theright things, in his own awkward way. The change he goes through during themovie is one of the saddest ones: Realizing his wife cannot truly care forothers, he questions his own love for her for the first time in their marriage. The sessions of psychiatric therapy are supposed to contain the moments of thefilm's most visible insights, I suppose. But even more effective, for me, werethe scenes involving the kid and his two teen-age girlfriends. The girl fromthe hospital (Dinah Manoff) is cheerful, bright, but somehow running fromsomething. The girl from choir practice (Elizabeth McGovern) isstraightforward, sympathetic, able to be honest. In trying to figure them out,Conrad gets help in figuring himself out. Director Redford places all these events in a suburban world that is seen withan understated matter-of-factness. There are no cheap shots against suburbanlifestyles or affluence or mannerisms: The problems of the people in this moviearen't caused by their milieu, but grow out of themselves. And, like it or not,the participants have to deal with them. That's what sets the film apart fromthe sophisticated suburban soap opera it could easily have become. Eachcharacter in this movie is given the dramatic opportunity to look insidehimself, to question his own motives as well as the motives of others, and totry to improve his own ways of dealing with a troubled situation. Two of thecharacters do learn how to adjust; the third doesn't. It's not often we getcharacters who face those kinds of challenges on the screen, nor directors whoseek them out. “Ordinary People” is an intelligent, perceptive, and deeplymoving film. Advertisement