One of Robert Altman's trademarks is the way he creates wholenew worlds in his movies -- worlds where we somehow don't believe that lifeends at the edge of the screen, worlds in which the main characters aresurrounded by other people plunging ahead at the business of living. That giftfor populating new places is one of the richest treasures in"Popeye," Altman's musical comedy. He takes one of the mostartificial and limiting of art forms -- the comic strip -- and raises it to thelevel of high comedy and high spirits. Advertisement Andyet "Popeye" nevertheless remains true to its origin on the comicpage, and in those classic cartoons by Max Fleischer. A review of this filmalmost has to start with the work of Wolf Kroeger, the production designer, whocreated an astonishingly detailed and rich set on the movie's Malta locations.Most of the action takes place in a ramshackle fishing hamlet --"Sweethaven" -- where the streets run at crazy angles up thehillsides, and the rooming houses and saloons lean together dangerously. Sweethavenhas been populated by actors who look, or are made to look, so much like theirfunny-page originals that it's hardly even jarring that they're not cartoons.Audiences immediately notice the immense forearms onRobin Williams, who playsPopeye; they're big, brawny, and completely convincing. But so is Williams'sperpetual squint and his lopsided smile.Shelley Duvall, the star of so manyother Altman films, is perfect here as Olive Oyl, the role she was born toplay. She brings to Olive a certain ... dignity, you might say. She's notlightly scorned, and although she may tear apart a room in an unsuccessfulattempt to open the curtains, she is fearless in the face of her terrifying fiancé,Bluto. The list continues: Paul Smith (the torturer in "Midnight Express")looks ferociously Bluto-like, andPaul Dooley(the father in "BreakingAway") is a perfect Wimpy, forever curiously sniffing a hamburger with aconnoisseur's fanatic passion. Even the little baby, Swee' Pea, played byAltman's grandson, Wesley Ivan Hurt, looks like typecasting. Butit's not enough that the characters and the locations look their parts. Altmanhas breathed life into this material, and he hasn't done it by pretending it'scamp, either. He organizes a screenful of activity, so carefully choreographedthat it's a delight, for example to watch the moves as the guests in Olive'srooming house make stabs at the plates of food on the table. Thereare several set pieces. One involves Popeye's arrival at Sweethaven, another astop on his lonely quest for his long-lost father. Another is the big weddingday for Bluto and Olive Oyl, with Olive among the missing and Bluto's tempergrowing until steam jets from his ears. There is the excursion to the amusementpier, and the melee at the dinner table, and the revelation of the trueidentity of a mysterious admiral, and the kidnapping of Swee' Pea, and then thekidnapping of Olive Oyl and her subsequent wrestling match with a savageoctopus. Advertisement Themovie's songs, by Harry Nilsson, fit into all of this quite effortlessly.Instead of having everything come to a halt for the musical set pieces, Altmanstitches them into the fabric. Robin Williams sings Popeye's anthem, "IYam What I Yam" with a growling old sea dog's stubbornness. Bluto's"I'm Mean" has an undeniable conviction, and so does Olive Oyl's songto Bluto, "He's Large." Shelley Duvall's performance as Olive Oylalso benefits from the amazingly ungainly walking style she brings to themovie. "Popeye,"then, is lots of fun. It suggests that it is possible to take the broad strokesof a comic strip and turn them into sophisticated entertainment. What's neededis the right attitude toward the material. If Altman and his people had beenthe slightest bit condescending toward "Popeye," the movie might havecrash-landed. But it's clear that this movie has an affection for"Popeye," and so much regard for the sailor man that it even bothersto reveal the real truth about his opinion of spinach.