“Altered States” is one hell of a movie -- literally. It hurlsits characters headlong back through billions of years to the moment ofcreation and finds nothing there except an anguished scream of "No!"as the life force protests its moment of birth. And then, through the power ofthe human ego to insist on its own will even in the face of the implacableindifference of the universe, it turns "No!" into "Yes!"and ends with the basic scene in all drama, the man and the woman falling intoeach other's arms. Advertisement But hold on just a second here: I'm beginning to sound like themovie's characters, a band of overwrought pseudo-intellectuals who talk like across between Werner Er-hard, Freud, and Tarzan. Some of the movie's bestdialogue passages are deliberately staged with everybody talking at once: Itdoesn't matter what they're saying, only that they're incredibly serious aboutit. I can tell myself intellectually that this movie is a fiendishlyconstructed visual and verbal roller coaster, a movie deliberately intended tooverwhelm its audiences with sensual excess. I know all that, and yet I wasoverwhelmed, I was caught up in its headlong energy. Is that a worthy accomplishment for a movie? Yes, I suppose it is, if the movieearns it by working as hard as “Altered States” does. This is, at last, themovie thatKen Russellwas born to direct the same Ken Russell whose wretchedexcesses in the past include “The Music Lovers,” “The Devils,” and “Lisztomania.”The formula is now clear. Take Russell's flair for visual pyrotechnics andapocalyptic sexuality, and channel it through just enough scientific mumbojumbo to give it form. The result may be totally meaningless, but while you'rewatching it you are not concerned. The movie is based on a Paddy Chayevsky novel, which was, in turn, inspired bythe experiments of Dr. John Lilly, the man who placed his human subjects intotal immersion tanks floating them in total darkness so that their minds, cutoff from all external reality, could play along the frontiers of sanity. In “AlteredStates,”William Hurtplays a Harvard scientist named Jessup who takes such anexperiment one step further, by ingesting a drug made from the sacredhallucinatory mushrooms of a primitive tribe. The strange thing about thesemushrooms, Hurt observes in an easily missed line of dialogue in the movie, isthat they give everyone who takes them the same hallucinatory vision. Perhapsit is our cellular memory of creation: There is chaos, and then a ball oflight, and then the light turns into a crack, and the crack opens onto Nothing,and that is all there was and all there will be, except for life, which has itsonly existence in the mind. Advertisement Got that? It hardly matters. It is a breathtaking concept, but “Altered States”hardly slows down for it. This is the damnedest movie to categorize. Just whenit begins to sound like a 1960s psychedelic fantasy, a head trip, it turns intoa farce. The scientist immerses himself in his tank for too long, he regressesto a simian state, physically turns into some kind of ape, attacks the campussecurity guards, is chased by a pack of wild dogs into the local zoo, and killsand eats a sheep for his supper before turning back into the kindly ProfessorJessup, the Intellectual Hulk. The movie splits up into three basic ingredients: The science, the specialeffects, and the love relationship between the professor and his wife. Thescience is handled deliciously well. We learn as much as we need to (that is,next to nothing) about total immersion, genetics, and the racial memory. Thencome the special effects, in four long passages and a few short bursts. They'regood. They may remind you at times of the sound-and-light extravaganza towardthe end of 2001, but they are also supposed to evoke the birth of the universein a pulsating celestial ovum. In the center of this vision is Dr. Jessup, hisbody pulsing in and out of an ape shape, his mouth pulled into an anguished"O" as he protests the hell of being born. These scenes arereinforced by the music and are obviously intended to fuel the chemicallyaltered consciousness of the next generation of movie cultists. But then there is the matter of the love relationship between the professor andhis wife (Blair Brown), and it is here that we discover how powerful theattraction of love really is. During the professor's last experiment, when heis disappearing into a violent whirlpool of light and screams on the laboratoryfloor, it is his wife who wades into the celestial mists, gets up to her kneesin eternity, reaches in, and pulls him out. And this is despite the fact thathe has filed for divorce. The last scene is a killer, with the professorturning into the protoplasm of life itself, and his wife turning into a glowingshell of rock-like flesh, with her inner fires glowing through the crevices(the effect is something like an overheated Spiderman). They're going throughthe unspeakable hell of reliving the First Moment, and yet as the professor, asMan, bangs on the walls and crawls toward her, and she reaches out, and theuniverse rocks, the Man within him bursts out of the ape-protoplasm, and theWoman within her explodes back into flesh, and they collapse into each other'sarms, and all the scene really needs at that point is for him to ask, "Wasit as good for you as it was for me?" “Altered States” is a superbly silly movie, a magnificent entertainment, and aclever and brilliant machine for making us feel awe, fear, and humor. That isenough. It's pure movie and very little meaning. Did I like it? Yeah, I guess Idid, but I wouldn't advise trying to think about it very deeply. Advertisement