When the movie isn't manipulating cars, it does have its goodmoments. It involves an ancient family feud between two brothers who owncompeting used car lots across the street from each other. The brothers, bothplayed byJack Warden, have been treated differently by fate: One is rich andsuccessful; the other is on his last legs, like the cars on his lot. Wardendoes a good enough job in the dual role, but I always wonder why dual rolesseem like a good idea in the first place. If you want two brothers, why notcast two brothers, and accentuate their differences? Why cast one actor andsettle for one tour de force instead of two undistracting performances? AdvertisementAnyway, the movie's plot thickens when itappears that the rich brother will run the poor brother out of business. Theplot, infact, does more than thicken, it congeals. There are so many differentcharacters and story lines in the movie that it's hard to keep everythingstraight, and harder still to care.The great comedies almost always have verysimple story structures, upon which complex gags can be elaborated. Remember,for example, Buster Keaton's “The General,” in which magnificent complexitieswere developed out of a story that essentially amounted to Keaton driving alocomotive from point A to point B and back again. Used Cars makes the fatalerror of achieving the reverse effect: Simple gags are generated out ofbafflingly complex situations.Meanwhile, back at the used car lot ... KurtRussell plays a used car salesman who hopes to save the failing business inorder to raise money for his political campaign.     Gerrit Graham    has some funnymoments as a superstitious, sex-mad salesman.     Deborah Harmon    is the long-lostdaughter of the less successful brother; her surprise reappearance gives him anheir just when he needs one the most.Used Cars was written, directed, and produced bythe team of Bob Zemeckis and     Bob Gale    , two young filmmakers who seem to behigher on kinetic energy than on structure and comedic instinct. Their firstcollaboration, which I really enjoyed, was “I Wanna Hold Your Hand,” a fantasyabout the Beatles' first concert in New York. Their next collaboration was thescreenplay for Steven Spielberg's unsuccessful 1941. Next came Used Cars. Thesecond and third projects, in particular, are filled with too many ideas,relationships, and situations with plot overkill. And they seem to share thenotion that if something is big enough and expensive enough, it will also befunny enough.