The movie is based on a novel byThomas Hardy, but Polanskinever permits his film to become a Classics Illustrated; this isn't a devoutrendering of a literary masterpiece, but a film that lives and breathes and hasa quick sympathy for its heroine.Nastassja Kinskiis just right for the titlerole. She has the youth, the freshness, and the naiveté of a Tess, and none ofthe practiced mannerisms of an actress engaged to "interpret" therole. That's good because Tess is a character who should stick out like a sorethumb in many scenes, and Kinski's occasional shy awkwardness is just right forthe story of a girl who attempts to move up in social class on sheer bravado. Advertisement Thestory involves a young girl who will be the victim, the prey, and sometimes thelover of many men, without ever quite understanding what it is that those menwant of her. The first man in her life is her father, a drunken farmer namedJohn Durbeyfield, who discovers from the local parson that he is related to thenoble local family of d'Urbervilles. The farmer and his wife immediately sendtheir beautiful daughter, Tess, off to confront the d'Urbervilles and perhapswin a position in their household. Tessis almost immediately seduced by a rakish cousin. She becomes pregnant, and herchild dies soon after it is born. She never tells the cousin. But later, aftershe falls in love with the son of a local minister and marries him, sheconfesses her past. This is too much for her new husband to bear; he"married down" because he was attracted to Tess's humble origins. Buthe is not prepared to accept the reality of her past. He leaves on a bizarremission to South America. Tess, meanwhile, descends to rough manual labor for afew pennies an hour. She is eventually reunited with her cousin (who is not acomplete bastard, and complains that he should have been informed of herpregnancy). She becomes his lover. Then the wayward husband returns, and thephysical and psychic contest for Tess ends in tragedy. Asa plot, these events would be right at home in any soap opera. But what happensin Polanski's "Tess" is less important than how Tess feels about it,how we feel about it, and how successfully Polanski is able to locate thoseevents in a specific place and time. His movie is set in England, but wasactually photographed in France. It is a beautifully visualized period piecethat surrounds Tess with the attitudes of her time -- attitudes that explainhow restricted her behavior must be, and how society views her genuine humanemotions as inappropriate. This is a wonderful film; the kind of exploration ofdoomed young sexuality that, like "Elvira Madigan," makes us agreethat the lovers should never grow old. Advertisement