There is a sense in which "Roller Boogie" comes as arefreshing surprise: I didn't think it was still possible, in the dog-earedfinal days of the 1970s, to have this silly, innocent, lame-brained and naivemovie. I'd always thought that whenAnnette FunicelloandFrankie Avalongrewup, that was it. But,no, the spirit of those American-International beach party movies from theearly 1960s still survives. You remember the beachparty/blanket/bikini/bongo/bingo/barbecue gang: Annette and Frankie, down onthe beach with their surfboards, catching the monster waves and dancing to"Surfin' USA" and planning a big dance down at the local teen hangout. . . until a fascist meanie local real estate speculator announces plans tobuy the hangout, tear it down immediately, and put up something real thrillinglike, say, a senior citizens' condominium. Advertisement Timesdo change: I can see more virtue in the fascist meanie viewpoint than I couldin 1960, and Frankie and Annette, for that matter, are probably putting moremoney into condos than juke boxes these days. Butthe basic art form of the beach party movie apparently never dies. It was firstborn, indeed, in the days before beach parties and even before bikinis: Thisbasic genre had its first golden era in the MGM classics whereJudy GarlandandMickey Rooneywould bat around dialog along the lines of. "I've got it!!!Let's rent the old barn and put on a show!!" Nothinghas changed much in all the years since. "Roller Boogie" involves abunch of kids who hang around on the boardwalk at Venice, Calif., and whoselives are centered around roller skating. Lest you dismiss this as fantasy:I've been to the boardwalk at Venice, and it is, incredibly, very much as it'sdepicted here. There were never real teenagers like the beach party gang, butthere are, God help us, real teenagers like the roller boogie gang, and thereare some senses in which "Roller Boogie" is a documentary. But,anyway, the kids hang around on the boardwalk, as I was saying, and rollerskate up and down and listen to Top 40 stations on their transistor headphones.And then we meet a local rich girl (Linda Blair) who lives in one of those BelAir mansions where the domestic staff runs things while Linda's mother sitsaround looking painfully bored, and her daddy makes large amounts of money andkeeps his daughter in new convertibles. So.Linda and her friend, a busty brunette who would have looked great in one ofAnnette's bikinis, hop in the convertible and bop down to the boardwalk andskate up and down, and hang out at the rink, and there are some puppy loveromances and some stunt skating and then it turns out that the local fascistreal estate meanies, in association with the mob, plan to . . . you guessed it,they're gonna tear down, the rink jut before the big disco roller derby. Advertisement Whatswine. The rink is run by a nice old guy whose name I didn't catch (but I willlay you 3-to-2 it's "Pop"), and the kids all rally around, and LindaBlair runs away to the boardwalk and there is a confrontation at a swank partyat her Bel Air mansion, and lots of people in formal clothes get pushed intothe swimming pool and there is, inevitably, a disco roller derby after all,looking as if it owes a great deal to "Saturday Night Fever." Themovie, as you have guessed, is not very deep. But I've been thinking: Is it abad movie, or is it just that my tastes have completely changed since thoselong-ago days when I could see some residual virtue in Annette and Frankie andthe gang? Let's say "Roller Boogie" is no better and no worse thanthe beach blanket/bikini/bingo/bongo movies, and from there you're going tohave to take it by yourself.