“One-Trick Pony” is a wonderful movie, an affectionate characterstudy with a lot of good music in it, and it's being sold in all the wrong waystoPaul Simon"fans." True, you'll like it if you are a Paul Simonfan, but does Paul Simon have "fans" anymore? He has lots ofadmirers, people who follow his music, but they're not necessarily prepared torace out into the night to see this movie, as fans of, say,Bruce Springsteenmight be willing to do. And that's sort of the point of “One-Trick Pony,” whichtells the story of a folk singer who used to have a lot more fans than he doestoday. Advertisement It's ironic, the way the movie's ad campaign seemed to haveexactly missed the point of the movie. Ironic, but not unusual. And never mind:This movie was one of a lousy film year's few good films, a work that knowsexactly what it's like to be a musician on tour. Jonah, the character PaulSimon wrote and plays, is a person drawn from life. If you are or ever havebeen a regular at a marginal local folk club, you've seen singers like Jonahmany times. He was very big in the 1960s. He wrote one of the songs thatbecame an anthem for that decade. His music was an anti-war rallying point. Butthe sixties are long ago. And Jonah has continued to perform more or less inthe same vein. He still travels the country by van, working with a small band.He still writes and arranges his own songs. He is still very good, for thatmatter, but he's out of date. He plays smaller and smaller clubs, and backhome, in New York, his wife and child are both growing up without him. There is a point, this movie argues, when a singer like Jonahstops being a brave individualist and becomes merely a middle-aged man hangingonto an obsolete self-image. That's the opinion held by Jonah's wife (BlairBrown), who loves him but wants a divorce. Jonah is sort of willing to try achange. He begins to deal with a "hitmaker" (Rip Torn) who sets himup with an arranger (Lou Reed) who can almost guarantee a Top 40 sound. The movie does an effortless job of teaching us this aspect ofthe music business. We hear various versions of one of Jonah's songs: first asit sounds in a small club, then as it sounds during a very nervous auditionsession, and finally as it is gruesomely transformed, violins and all, into a prepackaged"hit." During this period we begin to feel sympathy with a certainnobility in Jonah's character. “One-Trick Pony” never forces its points, but webegin to understand why his way might be preferable to success. The movie is filled with interesting, sharply drawn characters.Allen Goorwitzis brilliant in a hateful role as an egotistical monster whocontrols radio playtime.Joan Hackett, as Torn's sexually adventurous wife,goes after Jonah in simple, lustful boredom, but ends up trying to be his friend,to explain the realities of the situation they find themselves in. Brown playsthe singer's wife as a complex woman who, in her thirties, still knows andfeels why she married this man, but wonders how long he has to prove his pointbefore her life is sidetracked. Advertisement And Simon is very good in the central role. The movie has a lotof music in it that he sings well and with love, but it also contains some verytricky dramatic moments. Halfway through, we begin to realize that it's about alot more things than an aging folk hero. It is also about the generation thatwas young and politically active in the 1960s and now has been overtaken by thenarcissism of the most brutally selfish and consumer-oriented period inAmerican history. Many children of the sixties have been, of course, willingconverts to the new culture of the Cuisinart. Others stick to what they used tobelieve in. In Jonah's case, it's folk music. Everybody's case is different.