Early trailers for "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story" promised a work in  the vein of "The Bridge on the River  Kwai," "The Magnificent Seven" and "The Dirty Dozen"—impossible mission  movies that weren't  afraid to kill off the vivid characters they created. This film about  a band of misfits stealing the plans to the first Death Star is that  kind of work. It culminates in a thunderous  final act that weaves  together the most impressive space battle in the series with a prolonged ground  assault on an Imperial fortress in which casualties have both  physical  and emotional weight (which is something "Star Wars" was never big  on). But it also bridges the fairy-tale despair of the prequels  to the rah-rah idealism of the original trilogy, spackling decades-old  logic holes as it goes along. (Chris Weitzand Tony Gilroy's script even  retro-engineers an  answer to the question of why the Galactic Empire would build a  super-weapon that could be vaporized with a single well-placed shot.) "Rogue One" is a letdown in other areas, and there are creative decisions so ill-conceived they take  you out of the story. But somehow these  aren't enough to sink the movie, which manages to succeed as both super-nerdy fan service and the first entry since the 1977  original that will satisfy people who have never seen a "Star Wars" film. Advertisement Felicity  Jones stars as Jyn Erso, the lone child of Imperial scientist Galen (Mads   Mikkelsen) who invented the Death Star. She joins a band of misfits that  includes a cold-blooded  Rebel assassin named Cassian Andor (Diego Luna); a blind but still  lethal warrior-priest named Chirrut Îmwe (Donnie Yen); Chirrut's stoic,  cranky but loyal best friend Baze Malbus (Jiang Wen), a legendary  marksman; former Imperial pilot Bodhi Rook (Riz Ahmed), who claims he  defected to the Rebels after realizing the Death Star's power; and  Clone Wars veteran Saw Gerrera (Forest Whitaker), a revolutionary whose  cyborg legs and assisted breathing make him a  light-side-of-the-Force answer to baddies like Darth Vader and  General Grievous. The movie's undisputed scene stealer, though, is K-2SO (voiced byAlan Tudyk), a reprogrammed Imperial enforcer droid who can  break Stormtroopers' necks with a flick of his fist but is as peevish  and pouty as C-3PO and tends to blurt out the least reassuring thing at  the worst possible moment. (When his human colleagues fret that they  won't survive being ejected into space, he says,"I will.") "Rogue  One" was directed by Gareth  Edwards, whose 2014 "Godzilla" was  one of the most daringly conceived blockbusters of recent years, so much  so that some viewers found it frustrating and pretentious. This one is  more conventional, from its clockwork storytelling to its  relentless, brutal postscript (which I bet is where a lot  of  Disney'sreshoot moneywent). But the film still has enough moments  of  beauty and terror to mark it as the work of an artist rather than a  glorified craftsman. A Death Star "test" on a single city is more horrifying than any similar attack in the franchise because we see how  the battle station's green rays tear up the land, creating tidal waves  of earth: a cross between an earthquake and a tsunami. The  space battles make the odd physics of "Star Wars" seem as comprehensible  as 18th century flotillas clashing in a bay near a port;  there's even a combination tugboat-torpedo that can drill into the  hulls of enemy starships and push them to one side. Smaller, more  intimate action scenes have a tactile sensibility as well. Rain, fire  and wind have a fullness and weight rarely seen in CGI-heavy fantasies. When characters scamper up ladders or navigate wet, crumbling  cliffs, you flinch, because Edwards makes you fear minor cuts and  bruises as keenly as maiming and incineration. Darth Vader  makes a couple of appearances—both chilling; and how grand it is to hearJames EarlJones' rumbling baritone once more—and there's a rubbery  digital Grand Moff Tarkin puttering around the Death Star bridge as well  (I don't know if I should say he's played byPeter Cushing; how to  refer to a bunch of ones and zeroes badly imitating a dead man?). But  the main heavy is a bureaucrat: Orson Krennic (Ben Mendelsohn), Director  of Advanced Weapons Research for the Imperial Military, which is a  fancy way of saying "the guy who bosses around the scientists actually creating the Death Star." Krennic, played with a bitter,  resentful edge by Mendelsohn, has a long-ago connection to Jyn that turns  "Rogue One" into a slow-fuse revenge flick once all the details are  laid out. Advertisement But most of the film is conceived as a  galaxy-spanning chess match in which individuals, groups and whole  fleets either move themselves or are moved against their will. In  observing these movements, "Rogue One" conjures a spiritual vibe that  makes its action sequences feel like more than a collection of  spectacular moments. "Star Wars" always had a bit of this quality—it  probably announced itself when Luke lowered the blast shield on his  helmet in "A New Hope," and reached its peak with Luke shaming his  father in "Return of the Jedi"—but it has never been woven throughout any of the films  as consistently as it is here. Characters are constantly being asked to  take physical or figurative leaps of faith, whether they're jumping  from one side of a metal abyss to another or deciding to believe a  character that says he's on their side but might be a spy. Chirrut's  Jedi incantations during moments of jeopardy ("I'm one with the Force, the  Force is with me") define him as a holy man who keeps picking up and  reassembling the shattered pieces of his faith no matter what occurs. His pal  Baze mocks him, but never too harshly, because he envies the blind  monk's devotion to higher powers that he literally cannot see. Some overly familiar character  motifs get a workout as well, including the cynical antihero's secret  desire to join a crusade and the wounded child's wish to redeem a  corrupt or neglectful  parent. The latter aren't foregrounded in a self-conscious way,  as they were in "Star Wars: Episode VII - The Force Awakens," a movie that transferred its  anxiety about rebooting a 38-year old franchise onto new characters who  were all obsessed with outdoing the icons that preceded them or fixing their  mistakes. The "Rogue One" characters' personal issues take a  backseat to the mission, which happens at  such a grim point in the galaxy's history that, to paraphrase  "Casablanca," the problems of any one being don't amount to a hill of  beans. That sounds like a wise strategy, and in some ways it  is. But it also ensures that "Rogue One" fails to define its liveliest  characters in ways that would make them pop. This is one area in which  "The Force Awakens" is a better movie. Even when J.J. Abrams' plotting in "The Force Awakens" was haphazard, or too blatantly leaning on recycling or  nostalgia, Rey, Finn, Poe and Kylo Ren were written and acted with such  affection and wit that they seemed like worthy, or at least promising,  additions to the series' overstuffed pantheon of characters. "Rogue One"  is so devoted to its multilayered, fast-moving plot that it can't  afford to give its characters the breathing space they need to come  across as a great team, as opposed to a bunch of strangers who work  pretty well together despite ungodly pressure. Advertisement And the two  most important members of the group, Jyn and Cassian, are the least defined, which means that their emotional peaks near the end of the  tale are merely affecting when they ought to be deeply moving. (This is  a rare all-things-to-all-people blockbuster that might've benefited from being a few minutes longer, provided the time was spent  fleshing out relationships.) Nevertheless, the sense of all these  individuals struggling to assert their values in a cruel universe comes  through loud and clear. That so many characters have been pushed to the  margins of galactic life or banished themselves there after a  soul-crushing disappointment gives their decisions a grave, poignant  quality that's lacking in other "Star Wars" movies, even the good ones. "We've all done terrible things in the name of the rebellion," a  character says. The film adds much-needed shading to the the  Rebel Alliance, which  has both moderate and "militant" elements that don't trust each other  and  often work at cross-purposes. The military leadership argues about  whether it's better to be aggressive or cautious; the Imperial generals  and bureaucrats debate tactics as well, and the question of whether it's  better to ask forgiveness or permission comes up more than once.George  Lucas and his collaborators were always aces at world building even  when their storytelling failed, but this is the first entry in the saga that convinces us that its characters live in an actual  civilization, with rules and traditions and a sense of history (and a  religion) that they measure themselves against. ("The force moves darkly  around a creature that's about to kill," one character informs another, anticipating a betrayal.)  "Rogue One" also gets into the question of whether it's morally  acceptable to surrender or simply give up when you're too tired or  broken to fight. Its conclusions are more nuanced than you might  expect. The Force may be with you always, but there are times when its  weight feels like too much to carry.