“Oh, God! Book II” qualifies as a sequel only because of itstitle and the irreplaceable presence ofGeorge Burnsin the title role.Otherwise, it seems to have lost faith in the film it's based on. It beginswith the same great idea for a movie (what would happen if God personally camedown to earth and got involved in the affairs of men?), but it winds up as athird-rate situation comedy, using its subject as a gimmick. Neither of the “Oh, God!” movies is, of course, seriouslyreligious; they create God as a sort of ancient Will Rogers on a Christmas cardby Norman Rockwell, and then give him lots of cute lines and paradoxical comic insights.But the original film, with God appearing to a supermarket manager played byJohn Denver, did at least follow through on its basic premise. What if Godreally did turn up in the checkout line? How do you behave when God blows thewhistle and challenges you to test his rules?Advertisement“Oh, God! Book II” doesn't seem willing to devote a wholemovie to the same subject; it uses God as basically just a deus ex machina. Heis, of course, enormously appealing, and George Burns is rich and understatedin the role. But after he appears to a little girl named Tracy (played by avery little actress named Louanne), the movie uses him as a springboard forscenes involving the little girl, her parents, her school, her psychiatrist, everythingexcept what we'd really enjoy, more scenes with God.Tracy's basic problem, it appears, is that shecan see God and talk with him, but nobody else can. Her parents and teachersthink she's talking to herself. God asks her to organize an advertisingcampaign to promote his image on earth, and she comes up with a slogan("Think God") which her little play-mates plaster on every open spacein town. But, meanwhile, a psychiatrist (     Anthony Holland    ) determines that Tracy'sgot serious problems.There are other sitcom-style distractions.Tracy's parents (     Suzanne Pleshette    and     David Birney    ) are divorced. Tracydoesn't like her daddy's new girlfriend. The principal at school is a meanie.And so on. The movie's screenplay was written by no less than five collaborators,but they were so bankrupt of ideas that some scenes have a quiet desperation tothem. For example: There's an awkward TV newscast staged in the movie, withHugh Downs as the avuncular anchorman and none other than Dr. Joyce Brothersgiving her opinion that little Tracy may, indeed, have seen God. It would besad enough if the movie were using Downs and Brothers for laughs, but, God helpus, they're brought in as authority figures.There is, however, one additional small treasurein this movie, a supporting performance by Mari Gorman, who steals every sceneshe's in, playing Tracy's grade school teacher, Miss Hudson. She has a weirdkind of off-balance walk and out-of-time speaking style that's infectious andfunny. It's amazing that a movie so devoid of comic imagination would allowitself to play around with such an offbeat supporting performance. If Gormanhad played, say, Tracy's mother, and if the rest of the movie had been equallywilling to take chances with its approach, "Book II" could have beenworth seeing.Advertisement