These films are not to be confused with those of a neighboringgenre, the Women in Danger films, which spew hatred of women. Sleazoid moviesseem to exist on the edge of self-parody, and their ambition is to be to thecinema what the geek show is to the circus. They're not antiwoman, they'reantitaste, and their characters sink into moronic, bestial savagery. They touchon the ultimate horror of people degraded into subhuman, animalistic behavior.Some of these films, I should add, are not without merit -- although this isn'tthe place to launch into a defense of them. Advertisement WhatMotel Hell brings to this genre is the refreshing sound of laughter. This movieis disgusting, of course; it's impossible to satirize this material, I imagine,without presenting the subject matter you're satirizing. But Motel Hell is notnearly as gruesome as the films it satirizes, and it finds the right stylisticnote for its central characters, who are simple, cheerful, smiling, earnest,and resourceful cannibals. Motel Hell (the second "e" on the neon sign has gone out) is aramshackle place that seems to be located in the same redneck backwoods whereRuss Meyer's characters all live. It is operated by friendly Farmer Vincent(Rory Calhoun) and his sister (Nancy Parsons). The district is patrolled, nonetoo adroitly, by a relative (Paul Linke), who is the sheriff, but sees nothingwrong with burying the victims of a motorcycle crash without benefit ofinvestigation or autopsy. That's just as well, because Farmer Vincent's specialty isburying people. He just doesn't wait until they're dead. He waylaysunsuspecting travelers, knocks them unconscious, buries them up to their necksin his secret garden, fattens them up with cattle feed, and then slaughtersthem, smokes them in his smokehouse, and sells them as sausage at his roadsidestand. His cheerful motto: "It takes all kinds of critters ... to makeFarmer Vincent's fritters." Allright now, of course this is disgusting. But hold on just a dagbone minute, asFarmer Vincent might say. It isn't simply the subject matter of Sleazoid Moviesthat makes them reprehensible, it's their low opinion of human nature, theiracquiescence in the proposition that the world is essentially an evil place.Motel Hell, with Rory Calhoun looking like a Norman Rockwell model in his biboveralls, pushes this material so far in such unlikely directions that,incredibly, it works as satire. A lot of horror movies used to work that way.We went to be scared, sure, but we also went to laugh, enjoying the deliciousself-indulgence with whichVincent PriceorChristopher Leehammed it up. Buthorror movies stopped being funny. And now they're mostly just depressing,disgusting exercises in depravity. MotelHell is a welcome change-of-pace; it's to "The Texas ChainsawMassacre" as "Airplane!" is to "Airport." It has somegreat moments, including a duel fought with chainsaws, a hero swinging to therescue on a meathook, and Farmer Vincent's dying confession of the shamefulsecret that he concealed for years. These moments illuminate the movie's basicand not very profound insight, which is that most of the sleazoids would be alot more fun if they didn't take themselves with such gruesome solemnity. Advertisement