At the core of “The Idolmaker,” making it a better film thanit might otherwise have been, is the hungry, lonely ego of the movie's hero,Vince Vacarri. He has all the skills necessary to become a rock ‘n' roll idol,especially in the late-1950s world of Top Forty payola and prefabricated stars.But he doesn't have the looks. He so desperately wants stardom, though, that hetries to have it vicariously, through the "idols" he painstakinglymanufactures. Maybe that makes “The Idolmaker” sound more serious than it is,but it's that core of obsession in theRay Sharkeyperformance that takes amovie that might have been routine and makes it interesting. This is not adazzlingly original idea, but the movie understands its passions well enough toentertain us with them. Advertisement The "idolmaker" of the title is based, Iunderstand, on the real-life character of Bob Marcucci (listed as the film's"technical adviser"). He is the Philadelphia Svengali who discovered,coached, and managedFrankie Avalonand Fabian, quarterbacking them to stardom.If this movie can be believed, he was a rock ‘n' roll puppetmaster, supplyingthe lines, the songs, the delivery and, most importantly, the stage mannerismsand "look" of his personalities.The movie moves the story to Brooklyn, andborrows heavily from the clichés of show-biz rags-to-riches movies: Not only isit lonely at the top in this movie ... it's lonely at the bottom, too, forpractice. The Sharkey character manufactures his first rock star (     Paul Land    )out of a little raw talent, an unshaped stage presence, and sheer energy. Oneof the movie's most engaging scenes shows Land at a high school record hop,doggedly pantomiming his first record while Sharkey, backstage, goes throughthe same motions.Land does a good job of playing the movie'sfirst rock singer, a spoiled, egotistical creation renamed "TommyDee." We can predict what will happen. He'll be pushed to the top bySharkey, develop an inflated opinion of himself, and think he did it all alone.That's exactly what happens, but Land moves through these stages with aconviction that makes them seem fairly new, even while we're recognizingthem.Meanwhile, Sharkey has another discovery waitingin the wings. He spots a busboy (     Peter Gallagher    ) in his brother'srestaurant.**CHECKPOINT CHARLIE** The guy can't keep time, can't sing, andhas one enormous hairy eyebrow all the way across his face. No problem: Sharkeypounds rhythm into him, grooms him, renames him Caesare and fast-talks him ontothe movie's version of "American Bandstand." It turns out that thiskid does have a natural rapport with the prepubescent girls in his audiences,and he's on his way.None of this would work if “The Idolmaker”didn't have convincing actors playing the two rock singers. It does. Land and Gallaghercan sing and move well enough to convince us they're plausible teen idols. Theycan also act well enough to modulate their stage performances, they start outterrible and work their way up to levels that Fabian himself must only havedreamed about. And the movie has fun with its production numbers. The songs areall standard late-fifties rock dreck (but newly composed for the movie), butthe stage performances are a little sneaky. They're not as ridiculous as manyof the late-fifties adolescent heroes actually were; they seem to owe a lot notonly to Elvis (naturally) but also to such performers of a decade later as MickJagger.All of this is not to say that “The Idolmaker”is a masterpiece. But it is a well-crafted movie that works, that entertains,and that pulls us through its pretty standard material with the magnetism ofthe Ray Sharkey performance. Because we sense his hungers, his isolations, andhis compulsive needs, we buy scenes that might otherwise have been unworkable.Advertisement