God help us if many American teen-agers are like the ones inthis movie but God love them, for that matter, for surviving in the teen-agesubculture of Los Angeles. “Foxes” is a movie about four teen-age girls wholive in the San Fernando Valley, who come from broken or unhappy homes, who aresurrounded by a teen-age subculture of sex, dope, booze, and rock and roll ...and who aren't bad kids, not really. They run in a pack, sleeping over at each other's homes,going to school together, hanging out together, forming a substitute familybecause home doesn't provide a traditional one. They form the fierce loyaltiesthat all teen-agers depend upon loyalties of friendship that run deeper thanthe instant romances and sudden crushes that are a dime a dozen. They live in aworld where sixteen-year-old kids are somehow expected to live in adultsociety, make decisions about adult vices, and yet not be adult. That's what'sscariest about “Foxes”: Our knowledge that alcohol, pot, and pills areavailable to teen-agers unwise enough to go looking for them, and that they canprovide emotional overloads far beyond the ability of the kids to cope. AdvertisementOne of the kids in the movie does cope fairlywell, though. She's Jeanie, played by     Jodie Foster    as a sort of teen-age motherhen, a young girl who's got problems of her own but is intelligent, balanced,and enough of a survivor to clearly see the mistakes the others are making.That doesn't mean she rejects her friends. She runs with the pack and she takesher chances, but she’s not clearly doomed. And some of the others are.The movie follows its four foxes through severaldays and several adventures. It's a loosely structured film, deliberatelyepisodic to suggest the shapeless form of these teen-agers' typical days andnights. Things happen on impulse. Stuff comes up. Kids stay out all night, orrun away, or get drunk, or get involved in what's supposed to be a civilizeddinner party until it's crashed by a mob of greasers.The subject of the movie is the way these eventsare seen so very differently by the kids and their parents. And at the heart ofthe movie is one particular, wonderful, and complicated parent-childrelationship, between Jodie Foster and     Sally Kellerman    . They only have a fewextended scenes together, but the material is written and acted with suchsensitivity that we really understand the relationship. And we understandKellerman, as an attractive woman in her thirties, divorced from a rockpromoter, who is trying to raise a sixteen-year-old, attend college, and stillhave a love life of her own. Kellerman has a line that evokes whole lives, whenshe talks about "all those desperately lonely, divorced UCLAundergraduates."The parallels here are obvious. The Kellermancharacter, we suspect, got swept up in the rock and drug subculture, gotmarried too young, got pregnant immediately, and now, the mother of asixteen-year-old, is still in the process of growing up herself. She doesn't wanther kid to go through what she went through. But kids grow up so fast thesedays that, oddly enough, these two women are almost in the same boat.“Foxes” is an ambitious movie, not anexploitation picture. It's a lot more serious, for example, than the hit “LittleDarlings.” It contains the sounds and rhythms of real teen-age lives; it waswritten and directed after a lot of research, and is acted by kids who are toone degree or another playing themselves. The movie's a rare attempt to providea portrait of the way teen-agers really do live today in some suburbancultures.Advertisement