WhenAlfred Hitchcockdied, the obituaries puzzled over the factthat Hitchcock had created the most distinctive and easily recognizable visualstyle of his generation, but hadn't had a great influence on youngerfilmmakers. The obvious exception isBrianDePalma, who deliberately set out towork in the Hitchcock tradition, and directed this Hitchcockian thriller that'sstylish, intriguing, and very violent. Theads for DePalma's “Dressed to Kill” describe him as "the master of themacabre," which is no more immodest, I suppose, than the ads thatdescribed Hitchcock as "the master of suspense." DePalma is not yetan artist of Hitchcock's stature, but he does earn the right to a comparison,especially after his deliberately Hitchcockian films “Sisters” and “Obsession.”He places his emphasis on the same things that obsessed Hitchcock: precisecamera movements, meticulously selected visual details, characters seen astypes rather than personalities, and violence as a sudden interruption of themost mundane situations. Advertisement He also has Hitchcock's delight in bizarre and unexpected plot twists, and thechief delight of the first and best hour of “Dressed to Kill” comes from theseries of surprises he springs on us. Although other key characters areintroduced, the central character in these early scenes is Kate Miller (AngieDickinson), an attractive forty-fiveish Manhattan woman who has a severe caseof unsatiated lust. DePalma opens with a deliberately shocking shower scene(homage to Hitch), and then follows the woman as her sexual fantasies becomeunexpectedly real during a lunchtime trip to the museum. The museum sequence is absolutely brilliant, tracking Dickinson as she noticesa tall, dark, and handsome stranger. She makes eye contact, breaks it, tries toattract the stranger's attention by dropping her glove, and then is tracked bythe stranger. To her, and our, astonishment, this virtuoso scene (playedentirely without dialogue) ends in a passionate sexual encounter in the back ofa taxicab. Later, she wakes up in the stranger's apartment, and DePalma shamelesslymanipulates her, and us, by springing a series of plot surprises involvingembarrassment and guilt: What would you do if you were a cheating wife and hadjust forgotten your wedding ring in a stranger's apartment? The plot now takesseveral totally unanticipated turns, and I, of course, would not dream ofrevealing them. Indeed, I'll be vague about the plot from now on, because DePalma's surprises are crucial to his effect. The movie's other characters includeMichael Caine, who's the psychiatrist oftwo of the characters in the film. Then there'sNancy Allen, who's wonderfullyoffbeat as a sweet Manhattan hooker who discovers a body and gets trapped inthe investigation. And there'sKeith Gordon: He's one of those teen-agescientific geniuses, and he invents brilliant gimmicks to investigate thecrime. Some people are going to object to certain plot details in “Dressed to Kill,”particularly the cavalier way it explains a homocidal maniac's behavior bylumping together transsexuality and schizophrenia. But I doubt that DePalmawants us to take his explanations very seriously; the pseudoscientific jargonused to "explain" the case reminds me of that terrible psychiatricexplanation at the end of Psycho, a movie DePalma has been quoting from allalong. Advertisement “Dressed to Kill” is an exercise in style, not narrative; it would rather lookand feel like a thriller than make sense. Its plot has moments of ludicrousimplausibility, it nearly bogs down at one point near the end and it cheats onus with the old "it was only a dream!" gimmick. But DePalma has somuch fun with the conventions of the thriller that we forgive him and go along.And there are really nice touches in the performances: Dickinson's guilt-laden lust, Caine's analytical detachment,Allen's street-wise cool in life and death situations, Gordon's wise-guy kid.DePalma earns the title of master, all right ... but Hitch remains the grandmaster.