Think of a concert film and you think of a camera bolted to thefloor in front of the stage and shooting straight up into the singer'snostrils, which are half-concealed by the microphone. Those films are all rightas recordings of song performances, but as cinema they stink. Some directorshave broken out of the mold by making documentaries about the event of aconcert; the best of those films is still Michael Wadleigh's “Woodstock”(1970). HereMichael Ritchie, whose background is almost entirely indramatic features (“Down-hill Racer,” “The Candidate,” “The Bad News Bears”),tries a new approach. There are times in Ritchie's Divine “Madness” when heseems to be trying to turn a liveBette Midlerstage concert into a Hollywoodgenre musical. He opens as if “Divine Madness” is going to be a traditionalconcert film. Bette charges on stage, the audience cheers, there's an electricperformance feel. But from that beginning, Ritchie subtly moves into thematerial until there are times when we almost forget we're watching an actualconcert performance. Advertisement Ritchie's first decision was to declare an absolute ban on visible cameras. Atno moment during Divine Madness do we see any cameras or any members ofRitchie's crew onstage, even though twenty cameras were used to shoot theperformance. Ritchie and Midler used a week of rehearsal to choreograph thecamera moves and time them to Midler's own abundant energy. So instead oflooking beyond the performer and being distracted by cinematographers carryinghand-held cameras and sneaking around in their Adidas, we see only the stage,Midler, and her backup singers, the Harlettes. Ritchie also uses cameratechniques that are rarely seen in concert films. There are, for example, craneshots in this movie, shots where the camera swoops up to look down on Midler orto circle down and toward her. That's especially effective during the MagicLady sequence, in which Bette portrays a sort of dreamy bag lady on a parkbench. This sequence comes closest to capturing the feel of a studio musical.That's not to say that “Divine Madness” loses the impact of a live concertperformance. This movie is amazingly alive and involving, and Midler, who hasbecome one of the great live performers, has an energy that steamrollersthrough an incredible variety of material. When you think about “Divine Madness” after it's over, you realize what a widerange of material Midler covers. She does rock n' roll, she sings blues, shedoes a hilarious stand-up comedy routine, she plays characters (including atacky show-lounge performer who enters in a motorized wheelchair outfitted witha palm tree), she stars in bizarre pageantry, and she wears costumes that BusbyBerkeley would have found excessive. That's one reason “Divine Madness” doesn'tdrag: Midler changes pace so often that there's never too much of the samething. Is there a weakness in the film? I think there's one, a curious one. I don'tthink Ritchie intercuts enough close-up shots of the audience. That may seemlike a curious objection, since I've already praised “Divine Madness” forsometimes feeling more like a movie musical than a concert documentary. But youcan use people in an audience as characters.Richard Lesterdid in the originalBeatles film, “A Hard Day's Night” (and who can ever forget that blond girlweeping and screaming?). With a Midler concert, the audience is part of the show. Intercutting selectedaudience shots with the stage material could have set up a nice byplay in someof the numbers. But Ritchie keeps the audience mostly in long shot; it lookslike a vast, amorphous mass out there in the dark. Since the film was actuallyedited together from three different concert performances, maybe he wasconcerned about matching audiences. But close-ups would have eliminated thatproblem. No matter, though, really. Bette Midler is a wonderful performer with a highand infectious energy level and a split-second timing instinct that allows herto play with raunchy material instead of getting mired in it. She sings well,but she performs even better than she sings: She's giving a dramaticperformance in music, and Divine Madness does a good job of communicating thatperformance without obscuring it in the distractions of most concertdocumentaries. Advertisement