What improbable lives so many Americans lead, compared to the more orderly and predictable careers of the Swedes, say, or the French. It's not just that we're the most upwardly mobile society in history, we're the most mobile, period: We go to ruin as swiftly and dramatically as we hit the jackpot. No wonder one of our favorite myths involves a rags-to-riches story in which success then destroys the hero.Look at country music star Loretta Lynn. If we can believe “CoalMiner's Daughter” (and I gather that, by and large, we can), here's a lifewhich began in the poverty of the coalfields of Kentucky and led almostovernight to show-business stardom. And what's astonishing is that it wasn'teven really planned that way: Loretta learned to play on a pawnshop guitar, herhusband thought she could sing, and one day she just sorta found herself onstage. The movie's about Loretta Lynn's childhood, her very early marriage, herquick four kids, her husband's move to Washington State looking for a job, herhumble start in show business, her apparently quick rise to stardom, and thenthe usual Catch-22 of self-destructivenss. AdvertisementWe're not surprised, somehow, that right afterthe scenes where she becomes a superstar, there are scenes where she startsusing pills, getting headaches, and complaining that everybody's on her caseall the time. We fiercely want to believe in success in this country, but forsome reason we also want to believe that it takes a terrible human toll. Sometimesit does, and that always makes for a better story. Straightforward success sagas,in which the heroes just keep on getting richer, are boring. We want our heroesto suffer. We like to identify, it makes stars more human, somehow, if they getscrewed by Valium, too.What's refreshing about “Coal Miner's Daughter”is that it takes the basic material (rags to riches, overnight success, theonstage breakdown, and, of course, the big comeback) and relates them inwonderfully human terms. It's fresh and immediate. That is due most of all tothe performance by     Sissy Spacek    as Loretta Lynn. With the same sort of magicalchemistry she's shown before, when she played the high school kid in Carrie,Spacek at twenty-nine has the ability to appear to be almost any age onscreen.Here she ages from about fourteen to somewhere in her thirties, always looksthe age, and never seems to be wearing makeup. I wonder if she does it with herposture; early in the film, as a poor coal miner's kid, she slouches and slinksaround, and then later she puts on dignity with the flashy dresses she wearsonstage.The movie is mostly about Lynn's relationshipswith her husband, Mooney (played by     Tommy Lee Jones    ), and her first closeshow-business friend and mentor, Patsy Cline (     Beverly D'Angelo    ). Both of theserelationships are developed in direct, understated, intelligent ways; we arespared, for example, a routine portrait of Mooney Lynn as Official Show BizHusband, and given instead a portrait of a recognizable human being who isaggressive, confident, loving, and fallible. The fact that this movie felt freeto portray Mooney as hard-nosed is one of the most interesting things about it:Loretta Lynn, who had a certain amount of control over the project, obviouslystill has her feet on the ground and didn't insist that this movie be some kindof idealized fantasy.AdvertisementWe are left to speculate, of course, on whetherLynn's rise to stardom was really as picaresque as “Coal Miner's Daughter”suggests. She seems to get on the Grand Ole Opry mighty fast, and Patsy Clineseems to adopt her almost before she knows her. But then the amazing thingabout Loretta Lynn's life seems to be how fast everything happened, and howwide open the avenues to success are in this country, if you're talented and,of course, lucky.The most entertaining scenes in the movie are inthe middle, after the coal mines and before the Top 40, when Loretta and Mooneyare tooling around the back roads trying to convince country disc jockeys toplay her records. The scene with Mooney taking a publicity photo of Loretta isa little gem illustrating the press agent that resides within us all.So, anyway ... how good is this movie? I thinkit's one of those films people like so much while they're watching it thatthey're inclined to think it's better than it is. It's warm, entertaining,funny, and centered around that great Sissy Spacek performance, but it'sessentially pretty familiar material (not that Loretta Lynn can be blamed thatHoratio Alger wrote her life before she lived it). The movie isn't great art,but it has been made with great taste and style; it's more intelligent andobservant than movie biographies of singing stars used to be. That makes it atreasure to watch, even if we sometimes have the feeling we've seen it before.