After the early loss of his first wife, playwrightNeil Simonmarried again soon afterwards. Six months after the death, he fell in love at first sight with actressMarsha Mason, and they were married after a romance of only twenty-two days. Simon transformed those events of 1973 into an autobiographical play that opened in 1977, and now this film stars Mason in a role that is based, we guess, more or less upon herself.Simon says the story isn't an actual record of what happened,but was just loosely inspired by his remarriage. There is no way for us toknow. What we can say, on the basis of “Chapter Two,” is that if the keydialogue between husband and new wife wasn't taken from life, it is possiblytaken from that wonderful category of what they should have said. And there isa great deal that they should have said. Simon is usually the most quick-footedand -witted of dialogue writers, but this time he gives us more than two hoursof discussions, arguments, debates, reconciliations, and accusations thatquickly become tedious. AdvertisementThe conversations in his screenplay are too longand too literal to begin with, but they suffer from two additional handicaps:(a)They do not take place between two characters whose motives have been wellestablished, and (b)they have the misfortune to involve     James Caan    , who is sotense, uptight, and verbally constipated that it's a trial to wait out hisspeeches.Caan plays the Simon-like character, a writerand new widower who is inconsolable in his grief until Mason happens along.Caan has previously survived a series of blind dates with the usual assortmentof hopeless choices, and so Mason enchants him: She's outspoken, direct,spunky. Their first "trial date" lasts five minutes (one of thosestandard Hollywood "meet cutes"), and in no time at all they're inBermuda on their honeymoon.So far, not so bad. This is all the stuff ofdependable romantic comedy, and we know where we stand. But we are about tofind ourselves at sea for the rest of the movie, because the Caan charactersuddenly has agonizing second thoughts ... his new bride gets on his nerves ...he doesn't know what's bugging him .. he's hurtful ... he splits. The movienever really bothers itself with why he behaves this way, unless we're supposedto supply our own instant Freudian analysis. Caan is awkward all through thismovie (he never seems happy playing this part), but he's never more lost thanwhen he undergoes this dramatic character transformation. And you can't reallyblame him: Simon just hasn't given him the words or actions to make himselfclear.After the split, the rest of the movie isdevoted to attempts by first one and then the other of the newlyweds to figureout what went wrong. Their scenes are so tediously top-heavy with dialogue thatwe can barely stand to listen. And then there's the added distraction of aparallel plot involving an affair between their best friends (     Valerie Harper    and Joe Bologna).There is absolutely no rational reason why thissubplot is in the movie. Maybe it made sense in the mechanics of the stageplay, but it doesn't belong here. And it's all themore distracting because,whatdaya know, Bologna and Harper are much better than Caan and Mason atconjuring up the romantic and comic juices of a love affair. Their scenes aremeaningless and unnecessary, but at least they're alive, and just when they gettheir emotional rhythm flowing, the movie cuts back to the nonstop marriagecounseling session that occupies the main plot.Advertisement“Chapter Two” is called a comedy, maybe becausethat's what we expect from Neil Simon. It's not, although it has that comicsubplot. It's a middlebrow, painfully earnest, overwritten exercise in popsociology. I'm not exactly happy describing Neil Simon's semi-real-life inthose terms, but then those are the terms in which he's chosen to present it.My notion is that Simon would have been wiser to imagine himself writing aboutanother couple, and writing for another actress than his own wife; that waymaybe he wouldn't have felt it so necessary to let both sides have the lastword.