“Caddyshack” never finds a consistent comic note of its own,but it plays host to all sorts of approaches from its stars, who sometimeshardly seem to be occupying the same movie. There'sBill Murray's self-absorbedcraziness,Chevy Chase's laid-back bemusement, and Ted Knight's apoplecticoverplaying. And then there isRodney Dangerfield, who wades into the movie andcleans up.To the degree that this is anybody's movie, it'sDangerfield's_and he mostly seems to be using his own material. He plays aloud, vulgar, twitching condo developer who is thinking of buying a countryclub and using the land for housing. The country club is one of those exclusiveWASP enclaves, a haven for such types as the judge who founded it (Knight), thene'er-do-well club champion (Chase), and the manic assistant grounds keeper(Murray).AdvertisementThe movie never really develops a plot, butmaybe it doesn't want to. Director     Harold Ramis    brings on his cast ofcharacters and lets them loose at one another. There's a vague subplot about acollege scholarship for the caddies, and another one about the judge's nubileniece, and continuing warfare waged by Murray against the gophers who aredevastating the club. But Ramis is cheerfully prepared to interrupt everythingfor moments of comic inspiration, and there are three especially good ones: Thecaddies in the swimming pool doing a Busby Berkeley number, another pool scenethat's a scatalogical satire of Jaws, and a sequence in which Dangerfield'sgigantic speedboat devastates a yacht club.Dangerfield is funniest, though, when the moviejust lets him talk. He's a     Henny Youngman    clone, filled with one-liners andinsults, and he's great at the country club's dinner dance, abusing everyoneand making rude noises. Surveying the crowd from the bar, he uses lines that hehas, in fact, stolen directly from his nightclub routine ("This steakstill has the mark of the jockey's whip on it"). With his bizarre wardrobeand trick golf bag, he's a throwback to the Groucho Marx and W.C. Fields schoolof insult comedy; he has a vitality that the movie's younger comedians can'tmatch, and they suffer in comparison.Chevy Chase, for example, has some wonderfulmoments in this movie, as a studiously absent-minded hedonist who doesn't evenbother to keep score when he plays golf. He's good, but somehow he's in thewrong movie: His whimsy doesn't fit with Dangerfield's blatant scenery-chewingor with the Bill Murray character. Murray, as a slob who goes after gopherswith explosives and entertains sexual fantasies about the women golfers, couldbe a refugee from Animal House.Maybe one of the movie's problems is that thecentral characters are never really involved in the same action. Murray's offon his own, fighting gophers. Dangerfield arrives, devastates, exits. Knight isbusy impressing the caddies, making vague promises about scholarships, andlaunching boats. If they were somehow all drawn together into the same story,maybe we'd be carried along more confidently. But “Caddyshack” feels more likea movie that was written rather loosely, so that when shooting began there wasfreedom, too much freedom, for it to wander off in all directions in search ofcomic inspiration.Advertisement