This is some weird movie. There's never been anything thatlooked quite like it; was it dreamed up in a junkyard? It starsJohn BelushiandDan Aykroydas the Blues Brothers, Jake and Elwood, characters who werecreated on "Saturday Night Live" and took on a fearsome life of theirown. The movie tells us something of their backgrounds: They were reared in asadistic West Side orphanage, learned the blues by osmosis, and, as the movieopens, have teamed up again after Jake's release from the Joliet pen. Advertisement Themovie's plot is a simple one, to put it mildly. The brothers visit their oldorphanage, learn that its future is in jeopardy because of five thousanddollars due in back taxes, and determine to raise the money by getting theirold band together and putting on a show. Their odyssey takes them to severalsleazy Chicago locations, including a Van Buren flophouse, Maxwell Street, andlower Wacker Drive. They find their old friends in unlikely places, like arestaurant run byAretha Franklin, a music shop run byRay Charles, and agospel church run byJames Brown. Theiradventures include run-ins with suburban cops, good ol' boys, and Nazis who aretrying to stage a demonstration. One of the intriguing things about this movieis the way it borrows so freely and literally from news events. The plotdevelops into a sort of musical Mad Mad Mad Mad World, with the Blues Brothersbeing pursued at the same time by avenging cops, Nazis, and an enraged countryand western band led byCharles Napier, that character actor with the smilelike Jaws. The chase is interrupted from time to time for musical numbers,which are mostly very good and filled with high-powered energy. ArethaFranklin occupies one of the movie's best scenes, in her South Side soul foodrestaurant.Cab Calloway, as a sort of road manager for the Blues Brothers,struts through a wonderful old-style production of Minnie the Moocher. TheBrothers themselves star in several improbable numbers; the funniest has theband playing in a country and western bar where wire mesh has been installed toprotect the band from beer bottles thrown by the customers. Iwas saying the musical numbers interrupt the chases. The fact is, the wholemovie is a chase, with Jake and Elwood piloting a used police car that seems,as it hurdles across suspension bridges from one side to the other, to have alife of its own. There can rarely have been a movie that made so free with itslocations as this one. There are incredible, sensational chase sequences underthe elevated train tracks, on overpasses, in subway tunnels under the Loop, andliterally through Daley Center. One crash in particular, a pileup involvingmaybe a dozen police cars, has to be seen to be believed: I've never seen stuntcoordination like this before. Advertisement What'sa little startling about this movie is that all of this works. The BluesBrothers cost untold millions of dollars and kept threatening to growcompletely out of control. But directorJohn Landis(of “Animal House”) hassomehow pulled it together, with a good deal of help from the strongly definedpersonalities of the title characters. Belushi and Aykroyd come over ashard-boiled city guys, total cynics with a world-view of sublime simplicity,and that all fits perfectly with the movie's other parts. There's even room, inthe midst of the carnage and mayhem, for a surprising amount of grace, humor,and whimsy.