"The Black Marble" centers around several days in thelife of a Los Angeles police sergeant named Valnikov (Robert Foxworth), anincurably romantic Russian who has been drinking too much since his partner'ssuicide. He gets a new partner, Sgt. Natalie Zimmerman, played by PaulaPrentiss as a combination ofSally KellermanandLucille Ball. His new partnerthinks Valnikov is insane. Maybe she's right. Thecase they begin working on together involves a prize bitch that has beenkidnapped and is being held for $85,000 ransom. Valnikov goes to interview thekidnapped dog's grieving owner, an attractive woman of a certain age. And, in adelightful scene that illustrates the movie's gift of being able to slide everso lightly from drama into cheerful comedy, he winds up on the sofa with thewoman, drying her tears and vowing, "Don't worry; I promise I'll get yourdoggie back." Advertisement Thedry tone Foxworth brings to the pronunciation of such lines is one of themovie's charms. He is mustachioed, mournful-eyed, usually hung over, and filledwith ancient Russian dreams and curses. It is inevitable, of course, that heand the sexy Zimmerman fall in love, and they have a wonderful seduction scenein his apartment. He puts sweepingly romantic Russian folk music on his stereo.They dance. "Translate the lyrics for me!" she whispers into his ear.He does. It does not bother either of them that there are no lyrics since thesong is instrumental. Meanwhile,a parallel plot involves the evil dog kidnapper, played by that uniquely malevolentcharacter actorHarry Dean Stanton, who looks and talks like Robert Mitchum'smean kid brother. Stanton is a veterinarian who has never hurt a dog in hislife. But he needs the ransom to pay a gambling debt before he is killed.Coughing, wheezing, and spitting through an endless chain of cigarettes, hemakes telephone threats to the dog's owner, who counters with descriptions ofher own financial plight, unpaid bills, and tax problems. WhenValnikov and the kidnapper finally meet face to face, they get into what isundoubtedly the most painful chase sequence I can remember, a chase thatrequires them to climb mesh fences separating a series of savage and terrifieddogs that snap maniacally at their legs. The chase is another sceneillustrating the curious way in which “The Black Marble” succeeds in beingfunny, painful, and romantic, sometimes simultaneously. Themovie's not altogether a comedy, although we laugh; it's a love story that kidsitself and ends up seriously; it contains violence but is not really violent.What it always does is keep us off balance. Because we can't anticipate what'sgoing to happen next, the movie has a persistent interior life; there's neverthe sense that a scene is included because it's expected. Advertisement Theperformances go to show you that a good actor in a bad film can have a veryhard time appearing to be any good. Foxworth's previous screen credits include “TheOmen,” “Part II” and “Prophecy.” Neither film gave me the slightest reason tolook forward to him in “The Black Marble,” but he's wonderful here. He giveshis character weariness and craziness and then covers them both with warmth. Heand Prentiss have so much fun with the long seduction scene that we can sensethe joy of acting craftsmanship going into it. Themovie's the second production byJoseph Wambaugh, the L.A. cop who became abest-selling novelist only to see Hollywood doing terrible things to hisnovels. Wambaugh vowed to produce his own books. The industry had its doubts,especially when Wambaugh hired a little-known British director,Harold Becker,to direct his first project, "The Onion Field." But that was astrong, edgy, effective movie, and now Wambaugh and Becker are back with thisunusual and distinctive comedy. Because it is uneven and moves so easily amongits various tones and moods, it's possible, I suppose, to fault it on form:This isn't a seamless piece of work, but it's infectious and charming.