Like almost all of my favorite films, “The Great Santini” isabout people more than it's about a story. It's a study of several characters,most unforgettably the Great Santini himself, played byRobert Duvall. Despitehis name, he is not a magician or an acrobat but a lieutenant colonel in theMarines with the real name of Bull Meechum. He sees himself as the GreatSantini, an ace pilot, great Marine, heroic husband and father and, in general,a sterling man among men. His family is expected to go along with this_and togo along with him, as he's transferred to a duty camp in South Carolina in theearly 1960s. Advertisement Thereare five other members of the Meechum family. His wife (Blythe Danner) is asweet Southern girl who calls her kids "sugar" and understands hermaverick husband with a love that is deep but unforgiving. His oldest son(Michael O'Keefe) is just turning eighteen and learning to stand up to a fatherwho issues "direct orders," calls everyone "sports fan,"and expects to be called "sir." There are two daughters and one moreson, but the movie's main relationship is between the father and the oldestboy. Santini, you understand, is one hell of a guy. All he understands iscompetition. He's a royal pain in the ass to his Marine superiors, because he'salways pulling damn fool stunts and making a spectacle out of himself. But he'sa great pilot and he's said to be a good leader (even though his first briefingsession for the men under him in South Carolina leaves them totallybewildered). Santini wants to win at everything, even backyard basketball withhis son. But the son is learning to be his own man. And there's a subplot involving afriendship between O'Keefe and the intense actorStan Shaw, who plays the sonof the family's black maid. Marine kids grow up nowhere and everywhere, we learn,and in South Carolina these two kids go shrimping together, trade loretogether, become friends. It's a nice relationship, although a littletangential to the main thrust of the movie. It's Robert Duvall who really makes the movie live. Duvall and Blythe Danner ina stunning performance that nothing she's done before (in “1776,” “Hearts ofthe West,” etc.) prepares us for. Although “The Great Santini” is set about tenyears before “Apocalypse Now,” Duvall is playing essentially the same characterin both films, we remember his great scene in “Apocalypse,” shouting thatnapalm smells to him like victory, as he gives his gung-ho speeches in thismovie. Duvall and O'Keefe go hard at each other, in the father-son confrontation, andthere's an especially painful scene where the father bounces a basketball offhis son's head, egging him on. But this movie is essentially a comedy, aserious, tender one, like “Breaking Away,” which is also about a son getting toknow his father. Advertisement There are wonderful little moments in the dialogue (as when the Great Santini'sdaughter wonders aloud if females are allowed full Meechum family status, orare only sort of one-celled Meechums). There are moments straight out of leftfield, as when Duvall and the family's new maid (the formidable TheresaMerritt) get into an impromptu shoulder-punching contest. There are moments sounpredictable and yet so natural they feel just like the spontaneity of lifeitself. And the movie's conclusion is the same way: sentimental without beingcorny, a tearjerker with dignity.“The Great Santini” is a movie to seek out and to treasure.