Howard Zieff's “Private Benjamin” is an appealing, infectiouscomedy starringGoldie Hawnas Judy Benjamin, a Jewish-American princess,breathless with joy on the day of her second marriage. She has a real catch:He's named Yale, he's a professional man, he wants his study done in mushroomcolors. Alas, he dies in the throes of passion on his wedding night (somethinghis grieving mother discovers when Judy solemnly repeats his last words). AndJudy goes into mourning. What'sshe to do? She calls in to an all-night talk show and is promised a solution byanother caller. The next day, we meet the guy with the answer. Played by HarryDean Stanton, that wonderful character actor who could be Robert Mitchum'ssneaky cousin, the guy turns out to be an Army recruiter. And he solemnlypaints a picture of Army life that has Judy signing up. Her subsequent shocksof discovery provide the great laughs of the movie's best scenes. She solemnlyexplains to a captain (Eileen Brennan) that she did sign up with the Army, yes,but with another Army. Where, she asks, are the private condo living quartersthe recruiter promised her? And surely the Army could have afforded somedraperies? In no time at all, she's cleaning the latrines with her electrictoothbrush. Advertisement This is an inspired idea for a movie comedy, and Goldie Hawn has a lot of funwith it. She finds just the right note for her performance, poised halfwaybetween the avaricious and the slack-jawed, the calculating and the innocent.She makes some kind of impression on everyone she runs up against (or into),especiallyRobert Webberas the square-jawed Colonel Thornbush, commander ofthe Army's elite paratroop unit, the Thornbushers. It's at about this point that the movie seems to lose its unique comicdirection and turn into a more or less predictable combination of servicecomedy and romantic farce. After Judy's parents try to rescue her from theArmy, she suddenly decides to stay and stick it out. She turns into a passablesoldier. She almost inadvertently captures the entire Red team and makes themBlue prisoners of war during war games. And she is invited to join theThornbushers by Colonel Thornbush himself (who turns out to have an alternativein mind if Judy doesn't want to jump at 13,000 feet). Along the way, she meets a sexy and eligible French bachelor who's agynecologist. After she blackmails Thornbush into sending her to Allied Armyheadquarters in Paris, she falls in love with the Frenchman (Armand Assante),and gets involved in Gallic romantic intrigues. It turns out that her would-bethird husband is more interested in Sunday morning soccer games and cute littledownstairs maids than in the kind of marriage Judy Benjamin was brought up todesire. This stuff is occasionally funny, but it's kind of predictable. It turns “PrivateBenjamin” into areas that are too familiar: We've all seen the comic situationsthat grow out of the courtship with the Frenchman, and we'd really rather haveseen more stuff of “Private Benjamin” in the Army. The movie would have beenbetter off sticking with Goldie Hawn as a female Beetle Bailey and forgettingabout the changes that allow her to find self-respect, deal with the Frenchman,etc. Still, “Private Benjamin” is refreshing and fun. Goldie Hawn, who is atrue comic actress, makes an original, appealing character out of JudyBenjamin, and so the movie feels alive, not just an exercise in gags andsituations.