If Paul Mazursky's “Willie and Phil” is supposed to be apsychologically plausible telling of this story, then it doesn't work. Themovie gives away its own game right at the beginning, with the reference to “Julesand Jim.” These aren't real people in this movie; they're characters. Theydon't inhabit life, they inhabit Mazursky's screenplay which takes them on aguided tour of the cults, fads, human potential movements, and alternativelifestyles of the decade during which zucchini replaced Faulkner as the mostpopular subject on campus. AdvertisementBut I don't think was intended to work on arealistic level, or that we're intended to believe that Willie, Phil, andJeannette are making free choices throughout the movie. In a subtle,understated sort of way, Mazursky is giving us a movie that hovers between asatirical revue and a series of lifestyle vignettes. The characters in hismovie are almost exhausted by the end of the decade (weren't we all?). Not onlyhave they experimented with various combinations of commitments to one another,but they've also tried out most of the popular 1970s belief systems.Willie (     Michael Ontkean    ) is a high schoolteacher as the movie opens, but he wants to be more, to feel deeply, to thinkon more exalted levels, and his journey through the decade takes him intoradicalism, back to the earth, and all the way to India for lessons inmeditation. Phil (     Ray Sharkey    ) says he wants love and security, but he holdshimself at arm's length from Jeannette and other possible sources of love.Unable to communicate, he channels all of his energy into making it in thecommunications industries. Jeannette (     Margot Kidder    ) ... well, what does shewant? To love, to be loved, to be possessed, to be free, to commit, but not tobe trapped, to ... have kids? A career? Willie? Phil?I think Mazursky's suggesting somethinginteresting about the 1970s. It was a decade without a consuming passion,without an overall subject or tone. Every decade from the 1920s to the 1960shad an overriding theme, at least in our collective national imagination, butin the 1970s we went on life-style shopping trips, searching for an impossiblecombination of life choices that would be morally good, politically correct,personally entertaining, and outperform the market all at once.And what were we left with in the 1980s?Confusion, vague apprehension, lack of faith in belief systems, EPA mileageestimates, megavitamins as the last blameless conspicuous consumption, and,echoing somewhere in the back of our minds, Peggy Lee singing "Is That AllThere Is?" How'd we get stuck? Why'd we wind up with a sense of impendingdoom when we tried every possible superficial substitute for profound change?Mazursky finds this note and strikes it in Willie and Phil, and that's what'sbest about his movie.AdvertisementBut like the decade itself, “Willie and Phil” isnot completely substantial or satisfying. What redeems it, curiously, are thescenes involving Willie's Jewish parents, Phil's Italian parents, and Jeannette'sSouthern mother. Their scenes are reactions to what's happening to their kidsin the 1970s, and they work like field trips from other decades. The parentsobserve, try to understand, are baffled, react with resentment, anger, love,confusion. I loved it when the Italian mother, trying to figure out howJeannette was going to sleep with her boyfriend in the house of her ex-husbandwhile the ex-husband bunked downstairs and the parents took the guest room, gotup, said it was all just too complicated for her, and left for the airport.That's sort of the motif for this movie.