The movie begins by acknowledging its sources of visualinspiration. We see a claustrophobic Allen trapped in a railroad car (that'sfrom the opening of “8 1/2,” withMarcello Mastroiannitrapped in an auto), andthe harsh black-and-white lighting and the ticking of a clock on the soundtrack give us a cross-reference to the nightmare that opens Ingmar Bergman's “WildStrawberries.” Are these the exact scenes Allen had in mind? Probably, but nomatter; he clearly intends “Stardust Memories” to be his “8 1/2,” and itdevelops as a portrait of the artist's complaints. AdvertisementMost of the action of the film centers aroundtwo subjects. The first is a weekend film seminar (obviously patterned afterJudith Crist's weekends at Tarrytown, N.Y.), to which the Allen character hasbeen invited. The second subject is a very familiar one, Allen's stormyrelationships with women. The subjects blend into the basic complaint of the     Woody Allen    persona we have come to know and love, and can be summarizedbriefly: If I'm so famous and brilliant and everybody loves me, then whydoesn't anybody in particular love me?At the film seminar, the Allen character isconstantly besieged by groupies. They come in all styles: pathetic young girlswho want to sleep with him, fans who want his autograph, weekend culturevultures, and people who spend all their time at one event promoting the nextone they're attending. Allen makes his point early, by shooting theseunfortunate creatures in close-up with a wide-angle lens that makes them alllook like Martians with big noses. They add up to a nightmare, a nonstopinvasion of privacy, a shrill chorus of people whose praise for the artist isreally a call for attention.Fine, except what else does Allen have to sayabout them? Nothing. In the Fellini film, the director-hero was surrounded bysycophants, business associates, would-be collaborators, wives, mistresses, oldfriends, all of whom made calls on his humanity. In the Allen picture, there'sno depth, no personal context: They're only making calls on his time. What'smore, the Fellini character was at least trying to create something, to harasshis badgered brain into some feeble act of thought. But the Allen characterexpresses only impotence, despair, uncertainty, discouragement. All through thefilm, Allen keeps talking about diseases, catastrophes, bad luck that befallseven the most successful. Yes, but that's what artists are for: to hurl theirimagination, joy, and conviction into the silent maw. Sorry if I got a littlecarried away. “Stardust Memories” inspires that kind of frustration, though,because it's the first Woody Allen film in which impotence has become thesituation rather than the problem. This is a movie about a guy who has givenup. His relationships with women illustrate that; after the marvelous andcomplex women in “     Annie Hall    ” and Manhattan, in “Stardust Memories” we get aseries of enigmas and we never really feel that Allen is connecting with them.These women don't represent failed relationships, they representwalk-throughs.AdvertisementWoody Allen has always loved jazz and the greatmainstream American popular music. There's a lot of it in “Stardust Memories,”but it doesn't amplify or illustrate the scene this time it steals them.There's a scene where Allen remembers a wonderful spring morning spent with aformer love (     Charlotte Rampling    ), and how he looked up in his apartment to seeher there, and for a moment felt that life was perfect. As Allen shows thatmoment, Louis Armstrong sings "Stardust" on the sound track, and somethinghappens that should not be allowed to happen. We find our attention almostentirely on Armstrong's wonderfully loose jazz phrasing.“Stardust Memories” is a disappointment. Itneeds some larger idea, some sort of organizing force, to pull together allthese scenes of bitching and moaning, and make them lead somewhere.