"Kagemusha" is a samurai drama by the director whomost successfully introduced the genre to the West (with such classics as"The Seven Samurai" and "Yojimbo"), and who, at the age ofseventy, made an epic that dares to wonder what meaning the samurai code -- orany human code -- really has in the life of an individual man. His film isbasically the story of one such man, a common thief who, because of hisastonishing resemblance to the warlord Shingen, is chosen as Shingen's double. WhenShingen is mortally wounded in battle, the great Takeda clan secretly replaceshim with the double -- so their enemies will not learn that Shingen is dead.Thus begins a period of three years during which the kagemusha is treated byeveryone, even his son and his mistresses, as if he were the real Shingen. Onlyhis closest advisers know the truth. Advertisement Buthe is not Lord Shingen. And so every scene is undercut with irony. It isimportant that both friends and enemies believe Shin-gen is alive; hisappearance, or shadow, creates both the respect of his clan and the caution ofhis enemies. If he is unmasked, he is useless; as Shingen's double, he can sendhundreds of men to be killed, and his own guards will willingly sacrifice theirlives for him. But as himself, he is worthless, and when he is unmasked, he'sbanished into the wilderness. Whatis Kurosawa saying here? I suspect the answer can be found in a contrastbetween two kinds of scenes. His film contains epic battle scenes of astonishingbeauty and scope. And then there are the intimate scenes in the throne room,the bedroom, the castles, and battlefield camps. The great battle scenesglorify the samurai system. Armies of thousands of men throw themselvesheedlessly at death, for the sake of pride. But the intimate scenes underminethat glorious tradition; as everyone holds their breath, Shingen's double istested in meetings with his son, his mistresses, and his horse. They know himbest of all. If they are not fooled, all of the panoply and battlefield courageis meaningless, because the Takeda clan has lost the leader who is theirfigurehead; the illusion that he exists creates the clan's reality. Kurosawamade this film after a decade of personal travail. Although he is often consideredthe greatest living Japanese director, he was unable to find financial backingin Japan when he first tried to make "Kagemusha." He made a smallerfilm, "Dodes'ka-den," which was not successful. He tried to commitsuicide, but failed. He was backed by the Russians and went to Siberia to makethe beautiful "Dersu Uzala" (1976), about a man of the wilderness.But "Kagemusha" remained his obsession, and he was finally able tomake it only when Hollywood directorsFrancis Ford CoppolaandGeorge Lucashelped him find U.S. financing. Advertisement Thefilm he finally made is simple, bold, and colorful on the surface, but verythoughtful. Kurosawa seems to be saying that great human endeavors (in thiscase, samurai wars) depend entirely on large numbers of men sharing the samefantasies or beliefs. It is entirely unimportant, he seems to be suggesting,whether or not the beliefs are based on reality -- all that matters is that menaccept them. But when a belief is shattered, the result is confusion,destruction, and death. At the end of Kagemusha, for example, the son of thereal Lord Shingen orders his troops into a suicidal charge, and their deathsare not only unnecessary but meaningless, because they are not on behalf of thesacred person of the warlord. Thereare great images in this film: Of a breathless courier clattering downcountless steps, of men passing in front of a blood-red sunset, of a dyinghorse on a battlefield. But Kurosawa's last image -- of the dying kagemushafloating in the sea, swept by tidal currents past the fallen standard of theTakeda clan -- summarizes everything: ideas and men are carried alongheedlessly by the currents of time, and historical meaning seems to emerge whenboth happen to be swept in the same way at the same time.