There are moments during "Rape of Love" when we'redeeply touched by its outrage and anger, and then other moments - more of them- when we have the strangest feeling that we're watching a textbook of feministinsights into rape. The result is a near miss, an intelligent, serious filmthat never quite overcomes its didactic origins. Themovie involves a year in the life of a young French woman (Nathalie Nell) whoworks as a visiting nurse and is engaged to an Army trainee. She makes herrounds on a motor scooter, and that makes her vulnerable one day when she'sfollowed out of a gas station by a van load of loutish young men. They forceher to the side of the road, throw her into their van, take her to a secludedshed, and brutally gang rape her. Advertisement Thescenes of rape are particularly painful to watch, and the film dwells on them:The director, Yannick Bellon, apparently wants to make this rape so graphic andbrutal that its force will reverberate through the whole film. After it isover, the woman is dumped by the side of the road, is taken to a hospital, andbegins the slow process of physical and psychic recovery. Thefilm follows the aftermath of the rape with meticulous detail: Key scenesinvolve the clinical aspects of a hospital, the awkward attempt by a friendlydoctor to relate to his patient, the woman's initial decision to lie to hermother about what happened, and the chilling dialog they have when she finallydoes tell her that she was raped. Themost difficult thing for her to do is tell her fiancé, when he comes home onleave from the Army. Her mother, indeed, would have counseled against tellinghim: "You know how men are about things like that." The fiancé'sreaction is one of rage ("I'll kill those bastards with my barehands"), but he seems to interpret the rape as an affront to himself."What about ME?" the woman finally screams. Therealso is the matter of whether to report the rape and bring charges. After thewoman accidentally discovers the identity of one of her attackers, she doespress charges, and then is placed under severe pressure to drop them: The wifeof one rapist pleads on behalf of her children, and the parents of anotheroffer a bribe. But the woman stands by her decision, and then the closingscenes involve the trial, in closed chambers before a woman judge who is asquick as any man to wonder if the victim was really "leading on" therapists. NathalieNell is interesting in the leading role: She completely involves our sympathyin the scenes directly relating to the rape, and then she projects a fiercedetermination to see justice enforced after her attackers are identified. Andyet she doesn't overact or escalate her performance into heroic dramaticpyrotechnics. We sense her character as an ordinary young woman with a stronglydeveloped sense of character, who sees very clearly what must be done. Nell'sperformance and Bellon's intelligent direction make this film a worthyundertaking. But I'm forced to one reluctant objection: Scene after scene,there's the sense in "Rape of Love" that the film is a cinematicfeminist textbook. The film's ideologically correct and meticulously observant,but it lacks the elusive spark that would make it an artistic experience aswell as an educational one. Advertisement