I’d like to share one of the most delightful experiences I’veever had at the movies. It took place last April, at the U.S.A. Film Festivalin Dallas, during a day devoted to new short films. They screened a 39-minutemovie named “Junior High School,” and the audience, myself included, wascompletely won over: How could we have anticipated such a completely winning,sunny and wickedly funny experience from a previously unsung film? “JuniorHigh School” has played a dozen festivals since then. I included it on my“buried treasures” program last September at the Toronto Festival of Festivals,where it was a great success. savagery. It’s an original musical about innocentteenage romance. It was shot on location at a real Southern California juniorhigh school; it stars real junior high school kids playing versions ofthemselves, and of course, it’s populated with all the stock characters like awacko shop teacher, the prim librarian, the gung-ho women’s gym instructor, theknow-it-all class brain and the hero’s best friend. Advertisement Thestory behind the movie is sort of a cinematic rags to riches. Three filmstudents, David Wechter, Michael Wankin and Steve Jacobsen, made a TVcommercial for theLos AngelesTimesas a personal project.It turned out that theTimesliked it enough to buy it and run it,and with the money from that sale, they began the financing for “Junior HighSchool.” (This movie, in turn, impressed theWalt Disneystudios enough thatWechter and Nankin were invited to direct a feature, “The All-Night TreasureHunt”). Themovie has the flash and sparkle of a “real” musical – production numbers, comicsongs alternating with serious numbers – and it has a plot with which weimmediately identify. This Friday’s the night of a big dance, and the hero’s inlove with a girl he’s afraid to invite. Will he? Or will he be waylaid by theclass sexpot? Will the wiseacre know-it- all sabotage everyone’s plans? Themovie remembers the funny and the painful aspects of teenage sex life, in suchpoignant numbers as one sung in girls’ gym: “The Itty Bitty Titty Committee.”It pulls out all the stops in a big production number involving P. E. classes.It puts together one virtuoso number involving orchestra rehearsal, shop class,home economics and study hall. And its climax is cleverly built around suchrealities as corridor passes, messenger duty, the passing of notes and poeticjustice. In summary: I think it’s probably impossible not to be charmed out ofyour socks by “Junior High School.”2007 Note: One of the stars is the then-unknown Paula Abdul.