One of the occasional challenges of movie going is the thrillerwith one twist too many. Who could quite completely understand, for example,the plots of "Bullitt," "Night Moves" or "The LongGoodbye"? We counted off the characters, we remembered the loop-the-loopsin the plot, we added up the clues and quite frankly, we were defeated. Butthose movies were fun all the same. They got in too deep for their own interiorlogic, but so what? The trip was worth the ride even if we were totally baffledabout where we were supposed to be going. We forgave them. What we cannotforgive, however, is a thriller with one twist too few: a thriller with a plotthat sets us up to suspect one character . . . and then reveals that is theguilty character! Advertisement "Windows"is a movie like that, a thriller in which we suspect right at the beginningthat so-and-so is going to turn out to be the villain ... and then, an hourlater, after the plot thickens, there is the less-than-astonishing revelationthat so-and-so is indeed the villain - just as we suspected. "What'sthis?" we ask ourselves. No twist? No double-reverse plot switch in whichthe villain turns out to be framed and the good guy winds up with a knife inhis hand and a sneer on his lips? If there's anything worse than a thriller witha totally unbelievable twist at the end, it's a thriller with no twist at all. "Windows"plays that dirty trick on us, and I can't figure out why. Maybe it thinks it'sgiving us a deep psychological insight, in its creakingly obvious story of avoyeuristic lesbian knife-murderer, but what we're actually getting are ancientclichés in which the killer dyke turns out to be a pussycat at heart. Themovie starsTalia Shireas a shy young woman, in the throes of a divorce, whois attacked one night when she returns home to her empty apartment. The killerholds a knife to her throat and forces her to plead for mercy into a taperecorder. And then, a few days later, she finds herself in a cab driven by, youguessed it, the same guy. Butthere is more. The guy claims he was paid to carry out the attack. And theperson who paid him is none other than . . . well, I won't give away thesurprise, but the movie does. The real villain has Talia Shire in view all thetime through a telescope, and since we know who the villain is, there's no plotthrill to grow out of Shire's own eventual discovery of that fact. After Shiredoes discover who's after her, and why, there's a long and embarrassingsequence of threats and moans and pleadings and deep breathings, and then themovie's over as arbitrarily as it began. Advertisement Toobad, too, because there were elements here that could have produced a betterfilm. The movie marks the directorial debut ofGordon Willis, the AcademyAward-winning cinematographer of "The Godfather," who makes thismovie look very good, but fails to make it a good-looking movie about things wecome to care about. Theproblem's at the script level. "Windows," in its present form,consists only of what happens on the basic level ofvictim-villain-confrontation. It needed a rewrite to add at least one morelevel of possibilities and blind alleys, phony suspects and false leads, sothat what finally happens would come as a surprise. Since it doesn't, the moviehas to succeed or fail as a study of the psychologies of its characters. Andit's woefully thin on that level: Its lesbian villainy is such a shamefulcompilation of every two-bit cliché on the subject that we're distracted fromthe movie's possible thrills and scares by just plain embarrassment for thefilmmakers.