"Guyana-Cult of the Damned" has crawled out from undera rock and into local theaters, and will do nicely as this week's example ofthe depths to which people will plunge in search of a dollar. The movie is agruesome version of the Jonestown massacre of 1978, so badly written anddirected it illustrates a simple rule of movie exhibition: If a film isnauseating and reprehensible enough in the first place, it doesn't matter howbadly it's made - people will go anyway. Thefilm was produced, directed and co-written by one René Cardona, whose creditsin the movie's press release portray him as a ghoulish retailer of humanmisery. He is the producer of "Survival," about the cannibalism ofthe Andes survivors, and of "The Bermuda Triangle," and now of thedisquieting story of the Guyana massacre. "At least 15 film producers wentafter the story," the release says, "but Cardona got therefirst." Advertisement Goodold Cardona. He got there first with a film that mixes fact, fiction andspeculation with complete indifference, and which contains an amazing absenceof any real curiosity about the bizarre deaths in Jonestown. It presents themas a horror story, but it doesn't really probe for reasons or motivations. "Thisstory is true," we're promised at the outset. "Only the names havebeen changed." The story may be true, but the research sure isn'toriginal; the screenplay seems to have been written at typing speed and basedon wire service stories of the massacre. The movie's held together with avoice-over narration (handy if you're planning to dub into several languages),and the characters are almost always seen from the outside: We get no scenes attemptingto probe the personalities of the cult members. Instead,there are lots of sermons in whichStuart Whitman, as "Rev. JamesJohnson," seems to be trying to cross Hitler with Elmer Gantry, as heexhorts his cult members to follow him from San Francisco to Guyana - and topermit his dictatorship there. Whitman plays the cult leader as so rabid andfanatic - such a complete bad guy - that it's difficult to believe anyone wouldhave followed him anywhere. Surely the real Jim Jones must have been somewhatmore charismatic? Thescenes in Guyana show crowds of extras herded here and there in the jungle campand forced to listen to more fanatic sermons. For variety, we get scenesshowing cult members being publicly humiliated and tortured; one scene involveselectric shocks to the genitals of a young boy. Meanwhile, the narratorintroduces such supporting characters as Whitman's mistress (Jennifer Ashley),public relations expert (Yvonne De Carlo) and lawyer (Joseph Cotten). They allappear in a few scenes, look thoroughly ill at ease and embarrassed, and aredispensed with. Duringall the garbage that precedes it, we're waiting uncomfortably for the film'sclimax, the massacre with the cyanide in the soft drink. The movie spares nodetails. The cult members line up and drink their poison or have it forced downtheir throats, and then they stagger around, clutch their stomachs, and screamin pain. Later, the film shows actual photographs of the real victims, while weare solemnly reminded that "those who forget the past are condemned torepeat it." So remember: Don't drink cyanide. Allof this is disgusting, and all of it is sad. Why did a reputable studio(Universal) pick up this vile garbage for national release, and why is itshowing in such theaters as the Plitt flagship, the Chicago? Because there ismoney to be made from it, I suppose. The movie brings absolutely no insights toGuyana. It exploits human suffering for profit. It is a geek show. Universaland its exhibitors should be ashamed. Advertisement