The problem is with the fog. It must have seemed like aninspired idea to make a horror movie in which clouds of fog would be themenace, but the idea just doesn't work out in "The Fog," JohnCarpenter's first thriller since "Halloween." The movie's made withstyle and energy, but it needs a better villain. Andit also needs a slightly more plausible plot. We don't really care about thelogic of the plot in horror movies, of course, but there has to be someplausibility, just so we know what the rules are. Carpenter's fog - whichcontains the ghosts of murdered sailors - is too unpredictable. When it rollsin, it's likely to kill anyone, no matter whether or not their ancestors wereresponsible for killing the sailors 100 years ago. Advertisement It's easy to see, though, why this project must have been appealing to Carpenter, atalented 31-year-old film maker who built a cult audience with the low-budgetgenre films "Dark Star" and "Assault on Precinct 13" before breaking through toenormous ratings with the made-for-TV "Elvis." Carpenter's"Halloween" was one of the major box office successes of 1979(Variety calls it the most profitable independent film ever made) and itdemonstrated his favorite approach: He likes films that manipulate audiences, filmsdesigned, quite simply, to cause emotions - and his favorite response is shock. "TheFog" basically has the same structure as "Halloween." It givesus a small American town. It introduces a few of its inhabitants, especiallyisolated women. It establishes a threat. And then the rest of the movie isdevoted to scenes in which the threat either does or does not destroy itsintended victims. Verysimple. The threat need not even be believable; "Halloween's"psychotic killer, wrapped in sheets and apparently invulnerable, just kept oncoming while a platoon of baby-sitters bit the dust. But"Halloween's" killer was a person, and had at least a bit of personalbackground (we saw a traumatic scene from his childhood and heard apsychiatrist describe him as evil incarnate). Thenarrative background in "The Fog" is presented stylishly - JohnHouseman of "The Paper Chase" tells a ghost story around a campfireon the beach, little kids listen with their mouths hanging open, we learn thatshipwrecked sailors were murdered near this town a century ago, and that theyvowed to return 100 years later. And, of course, tonight's the night. Advertisement Butwhen the sailors' ghosts return, wrapped in fog, we can't figure out what theirmotives are. Do they want to kill the descendants of their murderers? Are theyangry at the town itself? Are they indeed there in the fog, or are theirvictims hallucinating? Well,let's face it, we wouldn't care about the answers to these questions if"The Fog" were as scary as "Halloween." But because"The Fog" has a historical plot, because its events are inspired bythe past, it should make more sense. A sentient fog may be photogenic (and thisis a good-looking movie), but can we identify with it? Is it the kind ofvillain we love to hate? Not really. "The Fog" is encouraging, all the same, because it contains anotherdemonstration of Carpenter's considerable directing talents. He picked thewrong story, I think, but he directs it with a flourish. This isn't a greatmovie but it does show great promise from Carpenter - whose psychotic killer in"Halloween," you may recall, was missing at the end of the film andmay be haunting a sequel any day now.