More perhaps than any other single book, Jack Kerouac's novel Onthe Road announced an end to the Eisenhower years and the beginning of thenarcissistic, rebellious Sixties. It told the story of the first beatniks,those dropouts from the middle class who rode the highways from Maine to Mexicoand raised hell, wrote poetry, loved unwisely, drank too well and did the basicengineering on the lifestyle that would eventually be run to exhaustion by thehippies. Kerouac's novel starred a heroic proto-beat named Dean Moriarty, basedon the legendary underground figure Neal Cassady. And now in "HeartBeat" we get the story of Neal and Jack and Neal's wife. Sort of. Advertisement Themovie's based on a memoir written a few years ago by Carolyn Cassady, who wasnot one of the heroes of On the Road, and who, it now appears, had good reasonto be less than enchanted with the beatnik lifestyle. The wives of famous menoften have unique outlooks on their wonderful opportunities to live so close togreatness; when Bennett Cerf, visiting the James Joyces in Paris, describedJoyce as a genius, Mrs. Joyce dryly replied, "That's all very well for youto say - you don't have to live with the bloody man." Carolyn Cassady's"Heart Beat" comes from the same fervent neighborhood of the soul. Butthis movie is another matter altogether. How closely it resembles the facts Icannot say, but it paints a portrait of Jack and Neal as good buddies whodrank, sank, hitchhiked, lied and fought their way around the America of thelate 1940s (Kerouac described himself and Cassady as "furtives"), andthen both fell in love with Carolyn. She married Neal, who stayed at home,sometimes, between time on the road, with Jack and a great deal of additionaltime spent on applied research into alcoholism. Jack was a drunk, too, and alot of the movie deals with their attempts to patch things together in thelittle postwar suburban house in San Francisco where Carolyn tried to maintaina home. Thisis not exactly the story we have in memory from the Kerouac legend, and therewere long stretches of "Heart Beat" during which I found myselfwishing instead for a film version of On the Road, That's unfair, I guess - butwhat is directorJohn Byrumtrying to do in this movie? I'm not sure. Themovie's a triumph of art direction, all right; the locations, clothes,lighting, moods, music and whole tone of the performances are designed to lowera kind of nostalgic dropcloth over the story, and we're constantly invited toread greater significance into dialogue and gestures because they took placeduring these now-lost times. Advertisement Fine,except that the significance doesn't seem to be there. "Heart Beat"seems to exist almost entirely as a matter of style. The characters arewonderfully well played byNick NolteSissy SpacekandJohn Heard- they havescenes together in which the round-robin of everyday dialogue is almost poetic- but nobody has given their characters anything to do except to be. Theyexist, we watch them, the decor is inspired, that's it. Theattempts to add other characters from the period are mostly misguided. Acharacter named "Ira," inspired byAllen Ginsberg(who forbade use ofhis name), is so awkwardly drawn he comes off as a '50s satire of a beatnikpoet. Jazz musicians are so artfully "cool" they're paralytic. Jackand Neal move through the worlds of coffee houses and jazz clubs as if theywere backdrops, not habitations. Whatfinally happens is that the whole period - the conformist '50s as well as therebellious beats - gets frozen into the same flashback. Everything becomes partof the film's nostalgic memory. The film seems to treasure the conformity ofAmerican mainstream society if only because it provides such an ideal contrastto Neal and Jack. This movie treats its events as so long ago, so finished anddone with and bathed in a yellowing afterglow, that we don't sense the verypassion and rebelliousness it's supposed to be about. What an irony for thefirst serious film about the Beats.