“Just Tell Me What You Want” occupies a world most of us have fantasiesabout, the world of an incredibly powerful, self-made business tycoon. It’s aworld that’s not new in the movies, but not often is it seen as sharply as inthis film, which, amazingly, leaves us feeling fairly affectionate about thepeople involved: This is a film that could have just been high-class, soft-coretrash, but it sneaks in a couple of fascinating characters and makes them real. Theyare Max Herschel (Alan King), investor, art collector, husband, lover,overgrown baby, and Bones Burton (Ali MacGraw), his mistress, who’s intelevision production. She’s also his prize creation; they met, we gather, 13years ago when she was a teenager, and Max has educated her, stage-managed hercareer, doted on her ever since. Advertisement Butnow there’s a crisis: Max has purchased a near-bankrupt studio, and wants toplunder it for its film library and then sell the real estate to make a sportsstadium. But Bones wants to try to turn the studio around. Hecan’t quite see his protégé succeeding on her own. But they have otherproblems, too. Bones, who has just had another abortion and isn’t getting anyyounger, wants to get married. But Max is still married, and supports hisderanged wife (Dina Merrill) in a series of expensive private institutions. Healso cheats on both his wife and his mistress. Bonesgrows rebellious, falls in love with a young playwright, and marries him onemorning. Max, enraged, tries to strip her of everything he’s ever given her.Bones, livid, violently attacks Max with her handbag in Bergdoff Goodman’s, inone of the movie’s funniest scenes. And Max, wounded, goes undercover to try todestroy Bones’s husband. Allof the ins and outs of the plot (and they are many) are essentially just propsfor the director,Sidney Lumet, who is mostly concerned with the characters ofMax and Bones. The movie’s especially successful with Max, who comes across asvirile, childish, bright, vindictive and perversely likable. Theperformance by King is surprisingly good, considering how little feature filmacting experience King has; King really inhabits the role of the rich tyrant,instead of just strutting through the dialogue. MacGraw is good, too, as Bones,making the character sexy primarily because of her intelligence. Themovie has several good supporting performances, especially byMyrna Loy, as anexecutive secretary who sees right through all of Max’s many moods, and byKeenan Wynn, as an ancient real estate tycoon who is Max’s chief competition.The whole cast, indeed, is plausible as real people, and that’s what makes thismovie somewhat unusual. There’sa whole genre of movies about the sex lives of the rich and famous, and theactors in them usually seem a little smaller than the lives they’re playing.Not this time: “Just Tell Me What You Want” somehow succeeds in taking on atacky genre, overcoming it, and giving us a couple of actually interestingcharacters. Advertisement