Now here's an appallingly dimwitted comedy. It's about marriage,I guess, and about how so many people are getting divorced these days that ifyou find yourself still together after 20 years you can almost wonder if you're"The Last Married Couple in America." But the people in this movieseem so spaced out about why they're married or divorced that the real miracleis how they lace their shoes in the morning. There'snothing more cloying than a film about "real" people in which thepeople talk like prisoners of a sitcom, and the plot is so painfully artificialthat even the actors seem incredulous. But that's what we have here. The plot'sso awkwardly put together we can almost overhear the story conferences on thesound track. The movie makes it necessary, for example, for the happily marriedcouple to break up, and so they do, but there's no reason for it and we'renever convinced that anything in this movie is inspired by any kind ofauthentic human motivation. Advertisement Thelast married couple of the title is played byGeorge SegalandNatalie Wood.They live in one of those modest little $2 million Southern California homeswhere you can pack the kids off to the family wing and they'll hardly even knowthere's an orgy going on. He's a professional man of some sort, and she sculpts- which means that there is a block of stone in the movie and once or twice shetakes a lick at it with a chisel. Allof their friends are getting divorced, we learn. And most of them seem headedfor the further shores of sex. There's a hot-blooded divorcee (Valerie Harper)who's always hot to trot, and an old plumber friend (Dom DeLuise) who's marrieda hooker and becomes a porno movie star. And so on. Wood and Segal arebewildered by these salvos from the sexual revolution, until Segal succumbs toValerie Harper's charms, they head for a motel together, and, wouldn't youknow, it, he contracts VD. Theresulting scene in the doctor's office is about as embarrassing as you canimagine, but then this whole movie is embarrassing, maybe because it has asmarmy attitude toward sex that's just not convincing. To put it another way,what happens in this movie is a lot too kinky to be convincing, given theactors who are asked to involve themselves in it. Acomedy about the real hazards of marriage and divorce might have been verytimely right now (and the presence of Natalie Wood reminds us of her last majormovie appearance, in the similar but infinitely better "Bob & Carol& Ted & Alice"). But this movie doesn't seem interested in realpeople with complicated problems. Instead, we get a sexual sideshow thatculminates in an orgy in the living room, and of course the whole old tiredcast of stock kinky characters is dragged in, including the macho biker inleather and the stripper with the backless dress. So what? Thereis a sense in which Hollywood has just plain lost touch with life as it'sreally lived, and this movie is depressing evidence of that. The title gives usa promising premise: We'd be interested in a movie about a marriage that'ssurvived and still works, especially if it gave us recognizable, plausiblecharacters. But this movie just doesn't. Thesexual events in the film seem drummed up out of the letters columns of swingermagazines. The sets look like sample rooms in furniture stores. The charactersdon't live their lives, they survive sitcom plot checklists. This movie isalmost a curiosity, it's so removed from the tones and rhythms of everydaylife. Advertisement