Given the fact that written science fiction encourages thegreatest possible free play of ideas, why is it that filmed science fictionalmost always seems required to be dumb, dumb, dumb? You can count on one handthe recent s-f films that have contained truly challenging ideas: "2001,"of course, and then "Silent Running," "Zardoz" (for itsstory but not its ending), "Close Encounters of the Third Kind," and,for certain of its scenes, "Alien." Certain other s-f movies haveredeemed themselves by sheer visual energy and high spirits; "StarWars" is the obvious example. Advertisement Buthow, this late in the game, can we still get movies like "Saturn 3"?Who paid for it? The credits name Lord Lew Grade andElliott Kastner. They'vegot a tidy little partnership over in England that's well enough financed tochum out about a dozen international releases a year, some of them as good as"The Muppet Movie," most of them as bad as "Saturn 3." Thelevel of intelligence of the screenplay of "Saturn 3" is shockinglylow - the story is so dumb it would be laughed out of any junior high schoolclass in the country - and yet the movie was financed. Why? Why couldn't LordGrade and Kastner for once decide that since they'd committed themselves tospend this money anyway, they had nothing to lose in financing a creative and intelligentscreenplay? Why do they feel compelled to support the lowest commondenominator, of filmmaking? And,all right, then: How dumb is "Saturn 3"? 1 will give you an example.The movie's aboutKirk DouglasandFarrah Fawcett, who are the only two crewmembers on Saturn 3, a space research station near Saturn. They have a visitor,who is supposed to be a Captain James, but is really the evil Benson (HarveyKeitel) who has killed James and replaced him for reasons of his own. Bensonhas brought along a robot named Hector. And, toward the end of the movie,Hector is chasing Kirk and Farrah. Sowhat do they do? They remove the floor panels of the space station and coverthe hole with a flimsy material, so that when Hector steps on it, it'llcollapse, and Hector will fall through to the bitterly cold cauldron beneath. Amazing!We haven't seen this brilliant idea since Tarzan was putting stakes in thebottoms of holes to catch elephants. And Tarzan, at least, would have beenbright enough to realize that if you make a hole in the floor of a spacestation, your atmosphere will rush out explosively. How can they still get awaywith disregarding all the elementary laws of physics in science fiction movies? Advertisement Butthis movie's dumb in other ways, too. The love triangle between Douglas,Fawcett and Keitel is so awkwardly and unbelievably handled that we are left instunned indifference. The purpose of Keitel's visit is left so unclear we can'tbelieve Douglas would accept it. The hostility of the robot is unexplained. Andthen there are dubious details like (a) the spaceship whizzes through the rocksin the rings of Saturn without hitting any of them; (b) the space station isrambling and spacious despite the fact that every square inch of constructionwould be at an incredible premium millions of miles from Earth; (c) gravity isthe same as on Earth; (d) ... but never mind. Thismovie is awesomely stupid, totally implausible from a scientific viewpoint, anda shameful waste of money. If Grade and Kastner intend to continue producingfilms with standards this low, I think they ought instead, in simple fairness,to simply give their money to filmmakers at random. The results couldn't beworse.