The texture ofHenry James' prose style is one of the mosteasily recognized in modern literature, but very much an acquired taste. Iremember the shock of my first exposure to it, years ago as a college freshman.I found it so opaque, so self-contemplative and so subtle that it was almostmaddening: Nothing ever happened! But I plowed on ahead, through TheAmbassadors and Wings of the Dove and The Golden Bowl, and finally, some yearslater, reading Portrait of a Lady, I think I finally grew into James. Advertisement Heis a novelist of passions buried by manners, of fearful characters who use therituals of proper society as a substitute for self-confidence, of people whofind themselves in positions where they cannot say what they mean and, as aresult, go mad or grow ill. Occasionally, a character of high spirits andunrehearsed goodwill flutters through a James novel, but she (for it is almostalways a she) is usually doomed. The people who live forever in James hardlyever seem to live at all. Sothat is why nothing ever seems to "happen." Motives are hidden, notrevealed. Characters are afraid of themselves and of others. They live within socialwalls that prohibit uninhibited expression. They communicate by infinitelysubtle and textured speech, in which meanings are implied more often thanstated. What is really happening in a James novel moves from the page to thereader almost by osmosis; at the end of a chapter we have absorbed the meaningwithout James ever having had to be so vulgar as to state it. JamesIvory's new film "The Europeans" is based on one of James' earlierand less complex novels, but the James style is still too much for it, perhapsbecause Ivory and his collaborators are so determined to make a filmreproducing the real atmosphere of the Master. Theelegantly composed visuals, the stately progression of the scenes, thedeliberate understatement of the dialogue, are all as "faithful" toJames as a film can be. But that's exactly the film's problem: Ivory hasn'tfound a way to make his own film, and has ended up with a classroom version ofJames, a film with no juice or life of its own. Thestory involves a classic James situation in which rather innocent Americans areexposed to the wiles of more worldly Europeans. The action is all within astaid New England backwater where the Wentworth family apparently spends mostof its time going to church, going for walks, sitting around and clearing itsthroat. Into this society come two cousins from Europe: the charming Felix (TimWoodward) and his sister, the intriguing Baroness Munster (Lee Remick). Theyare cultured, sophisticated, witty and broke, and, not to make too fine a point,they both need to get married. Advertisement TheWentworths put their cousins in the nearby guesthouse, and then the intriguesbegin. There are only a few basic possibilities, and they are all explored.Felix undertakes to woo his cousin Gertrude (Lisa Eichhorn) away from theperspiring local minister. The baroness goes after the wealthy local landownerwhile also flirting with a young Wentworth heir. One of the would-be courtshipssucceeds, and the others fail. Ivoryfollows the courtships against a backdrop of the local social life, which isextremely leisurely (nobody in this movie ever seems to work). There are churchservices, walks in the rain, flirtations at a dance, visits to each other'shouses, and a great deal of desultory conversation over breakfast. Everythingis photographed byLarry Pizerin beautiful compositions of white frame houses,grassy meadows and autumn leaves. The movie is elegant. But nothing happens! Or,more fairly, things happen at such a deliberate pace, and the working out ofthe plot is so inexorably predictable, that we don't find ourselves growinginvolved. This is a film of perfect surfaces, but it doesn't develop characterswe really care about. That's where it parts company with Henry James. Thesurfaces of his prose, so elaborate, so meticulous, so stubborn sometimes incircling the real content of his scenes, eventually suggests the pools ofemotion beneath. But Ivory's "The Europeans" is finally just allsurface: illustrations for the novel.