"To Forget Venice" doesn't feel like a story, it feelslike an idea for a story, and that's the problem with it: We can figure outfairly early in the film how the neatly symmetrical relationships are going towork themselves out, and then all we're left with is the behavior of the actorsworking them out. There are few surprises. And when a film really lives, it'sfull of surprises, because each scene contains the possibility that thecharacters will change. ButFranco Brusati, the director and co-author of "To Forget Venice,"begins with a simple idea: We must put behind us the dependencies and dreams ofyouth, and accept middle age as gracefully as we can. Now this is a fine idea,but it is not necessarily the only good idea on the subject - and the problemwith "To Forget Venice" is that we realize, early and with a sinkingheart, that Brusati's characters are doomed to illustrate it. Nobody's going tobe allowed to upset the boat. Advertisement Hereare his characters, neatly arrayed. There is Marta, the aging but stillbeautiful opera prima donna who lives in one of the big, ancient country housesthat line the mainland near Venice. She has never married, but has adopted aniece, Anna. Marta also has a brother, Nicky. A visit to Venice is planned, andAnna and Nicky, who are both homosexuals, join Marta in the big house. Annabrings along her lover, Claudia, and Nicky brings his lover, Picchio. Sowe have here three characters (Marta, Anna and Nicky) who are no longer asyoung as they once were. All three live in the past, in the dreams of youth.Marta remembers her singing, and basks in the praise of the others. Anna andNicky grasp youth through their younger lovers. Everyone is, of course,narcissistic, and Brusati himself writes of "each of them trying toperpetuate his own youth by reflecting himself in the partner as in a distantmirror." Thereis another element to the story: Marta's past greatness, her fame through herart, gives them all something to bask in. Because she stood aside from ordinaryhumans, somehow they all have license to be unconventional. But then Martadies, and the film moves into the dreadfully predictable passages in which theother characters are invited to take a deep breath, make a realistic assessmentof themselves, and stop living in the past. Allvery fine, and well and good, but deadening. Allow me to be irreverent for amoment, in the face of Brusati's pious hopes for human nature. What we havehere, after all, is a film that would have created a major scandal a decadeago: Not one but two homosexual couples, lots of nudity and sex, and anatmosphere of decadence and decay. "ToForget Venice" would have been such a sensation in 1970 that any plotwould have been forgiven (and if you doubt me, remember the plot of "I AmCurious [Yellow]"). Wouldn't it have been more interesting to simplyfollow these potentially engaging characters through whatever might havehappened in their situation, instead of forcing them to illustrate the lessonsthey've learned?