"Wish Upon" is another one of those movies that would be memorable if it were a lot better or a lot worse.Joey King("Oz the  Great and Powerful") stars as Claire Shannon, a teenage girl whose mother  killed herself years earlier. Claire grew up into an unhappy teenager who feels like a pariah and gets bullied. She's also humiliated that her father, Jonathan  (Ryan Phillippe), dumpster-dives all over town, even across the street  from her school. Then her dad finds a mysterious box inscribed with  Chinese characters. It's a wishing box that gives its owner seven  wishes. The downside is, every time a wish comes true, somebody dies. And we're off!Advertisement That  sounds like a decent setup for a schlock horror flick, but it's hard to  tell what directorJohn R. Leonetti("Mortal Kombat: Annihilation") and  writerBarbara Marshallsaw in this story. The screenplay made The  Black List, an annual film industry survey of the "most liked"  unproduced screenplays. But it's tough to discern from the evidence  onscreen that anybody could see something remarkable in this material,  besides the possibility of making money from people who thought they'd  be getting a great or even good horror film, as opposed to one of those  here-and-gone time-wasters that I used to watch at the dollar theater when  I was a kid. The best thing you can say about it is that the acting is  alright, there are a few decently executed moments of nastiness, the whole thing is in focus and you can understand what's being said. There's  not much internal logic to the way the script sets up Claire. She's made  out to be a pariah, but she has two spirited, funny, attractive friends  (Sydney ParkandShannon Purser, aka Barb on "Stranger Things"), and  when she's bullied, she stands up for herself immediately. The  characters speak in outdated '80s and '90s slang ("Bitchin'!" "No way."  "Yes, way"), and they are often played by actors who seem too old, or at  least too self-possessed, to be teenagers. The conception of all the  young characters feels like an older screenwriter's idea of what it  means to be young and American at this point in history. This all  matters because originality and specificity would've set the story apart  and made it seem special. The story is steeped in  Orientalist cliches that are also very '80s. The box exudes The Ominous  Mystery of the Far East, and Claire has a crush on a Chinese American  classmate named Ryan Hui (Ki Long Hee of "The Maze Runner"), who takes  the box to his cousin Gina (Alice Lee), who translates the characters in  exchange for an order of won tons. The script thinks that if it  makes the Asian characters  cool, and includes a couple of lines shading Claire for stereotyping  Chinese people, it won't seem like it's wallowing in the same cultural cliches that  drive older horror and fantasy films. This is also the kind of movie where one of the  heroine's friends chastises her late in the story for wasting her seven wishes  on popularity and personal riches when she could be using the box to  solve world hunger; this comment plays like a preemptive strike against  criticism, and only serves to remind us that the movie can't or won't explore its central idea in anything but a perfunctory way. Nor is "Wish Upon" willing to crank up the outrageousness and  really go for it—a scenario that might've at least secured a spot in the Midnight Movie Hall of Fame. Advertisement "Wish Upon" livens up  whenever the box extracts its blood price, but only a little. Nobody ever dies in an unremarkable way, only through  chain reaction slapstick mishaps that involve garbage disposals, chainsaws, deadly bathtub spigots and the like. Even routine car accidents are staged to  make the impact seem at once tragic and silly. But the kills aren't enough to  distinguish the film, much less save it. The violent scenes might play  as outrageous, in midnight movie fashion, if the direction were  capable of putting an intention, any intention, across. Instead, the bloodletting plays  as leaden and self-important, as if we're supposed to be deeply  horrified by what the film shows us and come away thinking about it. I laughed at it, not because it's disturbing or deliberately hilarious, but because the movie seems blissfully unaware of what it wants to do, or could do.  (If you like this kind of thing, the "Final Destination" series does it  better.) The movie is almost worth seeing for the scenes where the  heroine's dad reconnects with his love of the saxophone and blats out  obviously prerecorded instrumental stylings that sound like smooth jazz  in the vein of Kenny G. Here, at long last, is the bone-chilling horror  you were waiting for.