"Midnight Madness" is a very bad movie, but there's agood story behind it, and the story's worth telling. It's about these two kidsnamedMichael Nankinand David Wechter, who began making films together whenthey were in eighth grade. They started with super-8 film, worked their way upto 16mm and enrolled in two of the most prestigious film schools - Nankin atUCLA, Wechter at USC. Stillcollaborating, they made a short subject entitled "Gravity," a satireon classroom educational films in which their animated hero solemnly explainedhow to conserve gravity. It was a big hit on the film festival circuit, so thenthey decided it was time to make a more ambitious film. Advertisement Theywrote a script named "Junior High School," which would be a musicalabout young love, bitter jealousy and cheating on exams, and would be shotentirely on the campus of a junior high school. Their film schools, whichannually finance a certain number of student films, liked the screenplay butdeclined to back it because (a) it would be relatively expensive, and (b)Nankin and Wechter were just in their second year of school. SoNankin and Wechter made the film themselves. It eventually cost around $25,000,which they scrounged from their parents, from bank loans and from the AmericanFilm Institute. And it was a terrific movie. I saw "Junior HighSchool" for the first time last March, at the USA Film Festival in Dallas,where it delighted its audiences. It's won all sorts of film festival awards,and played here commercially not long ago at Facets Multimedia. Andit caught the attention ofRon Miller, the executive producer atWalt DisneyProductions, who fulfilled all young filmmakers' dreams when he called the twointo his office and, point blank, offered them office space, a salary for sixmonths and a promise to seriously consider producing whatever project they cameup with. Itis here that the story grows temporarily disappointing. Wechter and Nankin cameup with "The All Night Treasure Hunt," a comedy about a scavengerhunt. Re-titled "Midnight Madness" to avoid confusion with lastyear's dreadful "Scavenger Hunt," it's now in limited neighborhoodrelease. (But it doesn't carry the credit "Walt Disney Productions"because it's rated PG and has a few non-Disney touches such as a college kiddiving into a vat at a brewery.) Themovie is a big disappointment to me, because I liked "Junior HighSchool" so much. It's a pleasant, well-meaning little comedy, and it'sobviously trying for the same kind of innocent, sophomoric humor that was socharming in "Junior High School." But it just doesn't have the samemagic. A lot of its jokes miss, the pace is slow, there are too many charactersto keep track of and there's an unpleasant streak of nasty humor directed atcharacters who are fat, ugly, old or otherwise out of step with SouthernCalifornia physical ideals. Advertisement Themovie seems to have been cast, indeed, from the further shores of strangecharacter actors. Of the five teams engaged in the scavenger hunt, one is madeup of kids with sloping chins and big noses, another one has two fat twin girlsand a third is led byStephen Furst, the chubby kid in "Animal House"whose fraternity brothers wrecked his brother's car. All of the teams racearound Los Angeles, tracking down clues while the hunt's mastermind followstheir progress on a big map in his apartment. Isthere anything heartening about this movie? Well, there's the considerationthat, at ages 23 and 24, Wechter and Nankin still have their careers ahead ofthem and have shown in "Junior High School" that they have filmmakinggifts. What they need to do now, I think, is spend a great deal of effort ontheir next screenplay; the problems with "Midnight Madness" seem tohave started at the screenplay stage, when they saddled themselves with anunwieldy plot containing far too many characters. It's encouraging thatDisney's Miller gave these kids a chance - and on the basis of "JuniorHigh School," his hunch was a sound one. But now its back to the olddrawing board.