"Dark Star" is one of the damnedest science fictionmovies I've ever seen, a berserk combination of space opera, intelligent bombs,and beach balls from other worlds. It has a checkered history. It began as astudent project byJohn Carpenter(later to direct "Halloween") andDan O'Bannon(later to write "Alien"), and grew over a period of timeand expanding budgets into a full-length film. Itwas finished some four years ago, before "Star Wars," and might havehad a big success as a cult film if its original distributor hadn't been sochicken-hearted that he dumped it in a string of Southern California drive-insand then pulled it out of commercial release. As it is, "Dark Star"has found audiences on the campus and revival circuits, has been a hit here atFacets Multimedia, and, at last, is having its first commercial run at theThree Penny Cinema. Advertisement It'sa comedy about the adventures of the crew of "Dark Star," aninterstellar space cruiser assigned to blow up planets with unsuitable lifeforms and render the universe safe for the human race. Their job is mostly aboring one; they cruise endlessly through space, listening to rock music orsitting in a big observation dome that allows them to gawk at the passingstars. Occasionally they pull up at a planet and unleash a bomb. Their bombsare computers that talk, think and reason, and that occasionally insist onleaving the bomb bay on their own and have to be coaxed back into the ship. Themovie's best sequence centers around the care and feeding of the pet alienthey've taken on board (a sequence that O'Bannon may have drawn on for theoriginal screenplay of "Alien"). The "Dark Star's" onboardalien looks like a plastic beach ball with claws, and has a nasty way ofsneaking out of sight; a crew member chases it into an elevator shaft and getshimself into a very tight spot. (The elevator sequence looks suspiciously as ifit were filmed on the floor of a horizontal hallway photographed to look like avertical shaft.) Otherwise,life just sorta drifts past, until a chain of accidents leads to a situationwhere a bomb does not detach from the ship as planned, and will explode in 24minutes, blowing the "Dark Star" to smithereens. The bomb cannot bedisarmed because, intelligent little devil that it is, it's convinced that ithas a mission to self-destruct. Andso, in an incredible and hilarious scene, a crew member floats out into space,confronts the stubborn thinking bomb, and uses pure logic in an attempt toreason it out of exploding. The strategy: If the bomb can be convinced it hasno evidence that the universe really exists, then how can its instructions bevalid? Thisis a fun movie, and a bright and intelligent one. It bears few signs of havingbeen made on a low budget, and the special effects are reasonably slick. And ithas a mercifully low-key comic approach; many satiric comedies by youngfilmmakers are frantic and overwrought, but this one is wry, laid back and fondof its situations. And on the same program is "Hardware Wars," ashort subject starring steam irons, pop-up toasters and other kitchenappliances in outer space. Advertisement