We grow devout in the presence of poverty, particularly when itis not our own. We find an ennobling dignity in the lives of poor people,especially if they lived long ago and far away and don't make any presentdemands on our time and money. There's a natural tendency towardovercompensation when we see a movie like Ermanno Olmi's "The Tree ofWooden Clogs." We say the movie is a masterpiece when we mean that it isabout people we pity and respect. Ican understand those reactions without sharing them. Olmi is going for broke inthis film - he obviously intended it to be great, to dare everything - andbecause we are in sympathy with him we want to say he succeeds. But "TheTree of Wooden Clogs" demands a more complex response than that. If it is indeedvery good, let's not dismiss it with routine humanist overpraise. Advertisement Themovie's set in Italy, in 1898, in a very poor country district where fourpeasant families live in the same farm complex and till the soil for thelandowner, who gets three-quarters of whatever they do. Thelives of the families are very simple, centering around the change in theseasons, the condition of the soil, their own births and deaths and illnesses,their religion, their traditions. Somewhere else in Italy, a social revolutionis growing and there are demonstrations in the streets, but to these peasantsthat is meaningless. Olmiworks very close to the land himself. He is in the neorealist tradition ofDeSica, who experimented in "Shoeshine" and "Bicycle Thief"with the use of non-professionals. The people in "The Tree of WoodenClogs" are not actors, we are told, but Olmi finds astonishingperformances in them. Thereare a lot of characters in the movie (which is three hours long), and we meetthem in a series of many everyday activities. The fields are tilled, a hog isslaughtered, tomatoes are planted against the barn's sunny wall. A child isborn, a cow grows sick, a widow takes in laundry, a courtship proceeds, thereis a fight, a wedding and a river journey to Milan, and one of the landowner'strees is cut down to furnish wood for the clog sandal of a peasant child. Itis a very pleasant, even lulling, experience to watch these daily activities,and I found myself enjoying the film on a documentary level. Almost everythingyou might want to know about the external rhythms of Italian 19th centurypeasant life is here in this film, and, although Olmi is political and his filmhas a buried level of protest, this isn't a leftist tract like Bertolucci's"1900"; it's the story of some lives. ButOlmi has a tendency to grow too sentimental about those lives. The film'scentral image is of the peasant Batisti cutting down the poplar tree to makethe sandal for his child. As he sits in his kitchen shaping the clog shoe,organ music by Bach plays on the soundtrack. And later the peasant family willbe thrown off the land for stealing the tree. Advertisement Aswe wipe the tears from our eyes, may we also be permitted to reflect that (a)cutting down a whole tree is a rather drastic way to obtain the wood for onesingle clog shoe, and (b) that if Olmi's reasoning is carried through to itsconclusions, would we also get Bach playing over scenes of a modern Batististicking up a shoe store? WhatI'm suggesting is that this movie should be viewed for its actual visualcontent, rather than for its noble pretensions. It is a film to experience inan almost apolitical way: We are introduced to a community of peasants, weobserve their lives and strivings, Olmi has brought an astonishing wealth ofdetail, accuracy and beauty to this record of their story, and that is enough.