Roger Ebert's belief that cinema is a machine that generates empathy applies to "Nocturama," a French thriller about a group of teenage  Parisian terrorists. As a work of political provocation—one that asks  viewers to relate with kids who endanger, and murder innocent  civilians—"Nocturama" is useless, since the politics, background,  and motives of writer/director Bertrand Bonello's young characters are  not developed beyond a basic point. But Bonello ("Saint  Laurent," "House of Tolerance") doesn't seem to care about ideology or  psychology. Instead, he focuses primarily on what his characters are  feeling and thinking on the day that they  bomb and/or set fire to multiple targets around Paris, and then hole up  over night in a nearby mall.Advertisement The movie conveys the range of emotions and ideas that the characters experience through a series of  elaborate flashbacks, several of which go back  in time just a few minutes or seconds earlier, to relate what other  characters were doing at pivotal moments. The filmmaker refuses to pigeonhole  his protagonists with trite exposition. Instead, he relies  heavily on visual cues and clipped, opaque conversations to  relate both the limits of our knowledge and the depth of his subjects'  feelings. Bonello doesn't coddle viewers, but he does give us a world  of information conveyed simply, without heavy-handed commentary. "Nocturama" starts on the afternoon of the never-named terrorist group's attack. These kids  have no clear leader, though no-nonsense Andre (Martin Petit-Guyot)  comes closest. That said, they  are hyper-organized, and very few of them show signs of hesitation. Each fulfills a role: Mika (Jamil McCraven) delivers an explosive while  romanticallly involved couple David (Finnegan Oldfield) and Sarah (Laure  Valentinelli) clear an office building's 28th  and 29th floor, which are already under construction. Meanwhile, Greg  (Vincent Rottiers) keeps an eye out for security guards while Sabrina  (Manal Issa) uses a cherry-picker to douse a statue of Joan of Arc in  lighter fluid.We don't learn anyone's names at first. They're not important as individuals beyond the  functions that they perform in the story. One swipes a credit card at a boutique  clothing store and waits nervously for her purchase to be authorized.  Others push their way past a security checkpoint  using a counterfeit access card. Their colleagues ride the subway and  try to act casual as they abandon cell phones in public trash cans,  plant explosives, and check into hotel rooms under fake names. They are a  well-oiled machine, momentarily working against  a much larger system. Advertisement It's never  really clear why these kids behave the way they do. This might seem like  a fundamental creative shortcoming, but Bonello makes it work to his  advantage. Why pigeonhole these characters  by allying them with a specific political ideology when you can let  their actions—specifically their callow fascination with material  goods, their love of rap and vintage pop music, and their giddy  attraction to violence—speak for them? When these kids speak,  they don't talk for Bonello, or each other, but rather for themselves and to each other, and  only in the moments that they're speaking.One boy believes he's going to  heaven. Another feels guilty and fears death. Several teens are hiding  secrets from each other. These are not authority figures in adolescent bodies, but rather  children who chose to rebel with an unthinkable act of violence. If  "Nocturama" is a commentary about politics, it's about the politics of  avoidance, and the juvenile emphasis on being heard over  having something essential to say. Bonello is a master  of blunt but simply expressed symbolism, and he often  conveys the majority of his characters' feelings through clipped,  well-measured bits of naturalistic talk.  Even flashbacks that threaten to editiorialize or hint at the  real reasons why these kids did what they did are open to  interpretation, as when one teen recalls a political history essay he  wrote about how periods of decadence are always  followed by a period of violent  reconstruction and then by renaissances. The fact that he doesn't dwell on cultural upheaval is  telling. These kids are on auto-pilot, as evidenced by the way they  clear  out a mall by calling in a bomb scare and hastily dispatching the  stores' security guards, then carry on like kids in a candy store. They play with war toys, try on make-up, and  perform karaoke for each other using expensive home entertainment systems. Mannequins surround them. The echoes  of their footsteps haunt them. Designer labels accost them  everywhere: dresses by Celestina Agostino. Bedding by Alexandre  Turpault. Jewelry by Isabel Marant. Bonello draws viewers in by letting circumstantial tension and quiet, private little gestures define the characters. We  get to fill in the blanks when Mika dons a  mask that obscures his facial features and looks at himself in the  mirror. You can't definitively know if he likes what he sees, or if he's  even thinking at all. We are also encouraged to draw our own  conclusions when Omar (Rabah Nait Oufella) drives around  a toy store in a child's dune buggy. We follow him for a few moment as  he careens around the display floor, periodically driving behind a  plastic tarp that marks where the store ends and an employees-only  area begins. This scene fragment tellingly  ends with the dune buggy disappearing behind the tarp. Bonello knows exactly  when he's said just enough, and that makes the experience of watching  "Nocturama" more engaging. Advertisement Despite how much information he purposefully  withholds, Bonello's film is  remarkably accessible. We see these kids' fears of being assimilated into a culture  that only wants their blind allegiance. We see how they confuse counter-cultural influences as a separate kind  of anti-system. Finally, we realize the limits of their knowledge  and experiences, without the film feeling the need to overstate this.  "Nocturama" engages critical thinking while it unassumingly works your emotions over.  You may not think that a movie that asks you to understand terrorists is for you, but if you give Bonello 130 minutes of your time,  he'll make you a believer.