The original story is a sensational one. It's about a factoryworker in Buffalo, NY, whose ex-wife married a small-time hood who testifiedfor the government in a case against local Mafioso. Under the government'ssecret "witness relocation program," the hood was protected againstmob revenge by being spirited out of New York and re-established, with a newname and identity, in Michigan. The wife and kids went along. And the factoryworker, the actual father of the children, could not discover where his ownkids were. Advertisement Thisis a terrifying story, a Kafkaesque puzzle that we can imagine being made intoa very good movie. But "Hide in Plain Sight" lets us down. Themovie's basic weaknesses seem to be in the screenplay and the direction (withJames Caandirecting himself in his filmmaking debut). Atsome point early in the history of this film, everyone should have sat down andagreed on a clear narrative line from beginning to end, one that would havecast the material in dramatic form, established tension, and involved usemotionally. Instead, the finished movie seems to have been made from notes.There are scenes that seem to have been included in the movie only because theyactually did happen in real life - not a good enough reason. And,time after time, the movie seems to be building to dramatic climaxes and thenabruptly cuts away from them. Two examples: a visit to the hero's congressmanin Washington, and a scene in a government office where Caan hurls a telephoneand a typewriter around in an attempt to scare a secretary into supplying hiskids' whereabouts. Both scenes end prematurely. There are other scenes that dowork, but seem unnecessary - for example, the scene in which Caan is laid offat work, and a long scene with two couples conversing awkwardly in a bar. Themovie's storytelling skill is so shaky that at times we're not very sureexactly what's happening. After Caan sets off for Michigan, finds a hood on histail and refuses to lead him to the hostile witness, for example, It's notclear what happens next. Another scene has Caan looking across a body of waterat Canada - from Buffalo, of course, although in terms of the film's editinglogic we think for a confusing moment he's in Ann Arbor. There'salso a problem with the treatment of the character Caan plays. He's portrayedas shy, stiff, too formal in social situations, sometimes inarticulate, with aforced smile. For most of the movie, then, the character is so opaque that wecan't be sure what he's feeling. It's not easy to identify with himemotionally, even though we sympathize with him intellectually. Why portray thecharacter as so closed-off? This movie isn't a study of an uptight guy; it's ahuman story of a father looking for his children. Why allow irrelevant actingstratagems to distract us from the heart of the story? Advertisement It'stoo bad the movie doesn't work, because the basic material is powerful, andthe, relationship between the father and his children is so easy to care about.The movie's other relationship, a romance between Caan andJill Eikenberry,provides the movie's best-handled scenes, although even here the movie doesn'ttake full advantage of the potential: We're never sure how deeply Eikenberry(pregnant with Caan's child) feels about her new lover's quest. We assume sheshares his anguish, but that's not the same thing. Here's a movie with suchremarkable potential that it's depressing to see it missing so consistentlybecause of fundamental script and directing uncertainty.