If Mike Royko is correct and California is our national lunaticpreserve, then Marin County is the transitional institution where residentsgradually ease themselves back into the mainstream with maintenance dosages ofgranola, yogurt, cocaine, television, hot tubs, sex, being OK, and telling youyou're OK, too. I talked today to an old friend from Chicago named SandraSinger who has moved to Marin, and she summed up the difference between the twoplaces very simply: "You don't have to get up real early in the morning todeal with these folks. Everybody out here is debating whether the movie isaccurate or not." That anyone could argue whether "Serial" isaccurate is mind-boggling. Advertisement Marinis across the bay from San Francisco, and, if "Serial" is to bebelieved, is inhabited by a race of upper-middle-class zombies mesmerized bythe social trends of the moment. Hey, man, they're really into being intothings. "Serial" first appeared as a California best seller by CyraMcFadden, who satirized life in Marin as if it were a continuing soap opera. Tothe degree that the satire failed, it was because life in Marin is a continuingsoap opera. Andnow we have the movie. It is not a very good movie; it's one of those comedieswhere the occasional genuine laughter is punctuated by long periods of silence.But it's faithful to the book, more or less. It shows us an alien life formwith a superficial resemblance to the human being. Thesecreatures ride bicycles to the ferry to conserve fuel. They are all going tothe shrink. They trade spouses. Their kids join obscure religious cults. Theirhearts are filled with love, their minds with dread, their bowels with bran.Their marriages and memorial services are holdovers from the days of the flowerchildren, with incantations about the earth and the sky and doing your ownthing. Peoplein Marin keep their entertainment options open: An executive headhunter by dayis likely to be the head of a gay motorcycle gang by night. The weather inMarin is always just great. Themovie puts its cast through its paces as if this were a suburban"MASH." There's a complicated plot, lots of characters, and a storystructure that cuts back and forth, for example, between an outdoor renewal ofmarriage vows and a bike gang raid on a cult headquarters. It's as if all ofMarin is fueled by the same life force, which simply manifests itself invarious trends. Someof the movie's lines of dialogue are very funny (and most of the funny onescannot be quoted here). Some of the characters are well-drawn, especially PeterBonerz as a cocaine-sniffing psychiatrist who solemnly informs a 10-year-old heneeds to get in touch with his childhood. The dialogue is jammed with codewords, catch phrases and fashionable pseudo-psychological jargon: everybody inthe movie seems to have learned the language out of the back issues of MotherEarth News and Psychology Today. Advertisement Butfor all of that, "Serial" just isn't very good. I think maybe that'sbecause the characters are seen almost exclusively as caricatures. Nobody inthis movie are real enough for us to identify with; they're seen as suchcompletely robotized victims of the Me Decade that they don't have enoughfreedom of choice to make their behavior meaningful - or funny. They stand insharp contrast, that is, to the sturdy individualists, brilliant eccentrics andclear thinking citizenry of our own Chicago suburbs.