Grown men cry in "Trophy," a documentary about the wildlife hunting  industry. One is a manager at a big game preserve who takes tourists to  shoot African elephants. He's a big, tough-looking fellow, but as he  talks about the emotional bonding that occurs between humans and  animals, he bursts into tears, asks the filmmakers to cut, then leaves  the frame, embarrassed. Another is a wildlife control officer and  dedicated anti-poacher who sometimes has to kill exotic animals anyway  because they're threatening locals or endangering livestock. He seems to  get choked up talking about the experience. "It's an emotional thing,  killing an animal," he says, then goes on to speculate that for hunters,  that emotion, and the accompanying rush of adrenaline, becomes an  addiction that can only be satisfied by shooting more animals. This same  movie starts with a Texas sheep breeder named Phillip Glass (no, not  that one) helping his young son take down first buck. A ritual that may  be horrifying to some is sacred to these two. Later, the father relates a  childhood anecdote: when he was a boy, his mother warned him never to  kill a redbird, and he immediately went out and did it anyway, and as he  stared at the corpse, "I realized that I could not have loved that  redbird more, even though it was dead." Advertisement Evenhanded is not the  right word for "Trophy," a movie byShaul SchwarzandChristina Clusiau(who are also the cinematographers). Though created with the latest  moviemaking technology, including high-definition, lightweight cameras  attached to drones, this is an old school documentary that considers an  issue, the various people involved in it, and the communities and  nations they inhabit. It is not a position paper but a work of curiosity  and intelligence, filled with sublime and horrifying images. Shot with  an ominously gliding camera that revels in the beauty of rhinos,  elephants, lions and other rare animals and scrutinizes the map of each  face that tells a story in front of it, "Trophy" strives to be kind and  fair. But it is unmerciful in its exploration of the hunting business.  Like a ruthless lawyer, it loves poking holes in arguments that appear  rock-solid. The mystical-sentimental justifications for  killing penned-in animals are belied by footage of canned hunts—in  particular one that ends with a ranch employee dragging a wounded  crocodile from a man-made lake so that an American hunter can shoot it to death and shout, "Yeah, motherfucker!" (Before taking the  kill shot, he pauses to put his beer down on the grass.) But there's  also acknowledgment throughout that you can't just say "shooting animals  is evil" and be done with it, because there are too many factors at  play. One is the existence of multibillion-dollar meat and  egg industries built upon a foundation of prolonged, scientifically  refined forms of torture. Some subjects in "Trophy" argue that if the only  way to prevent African big game from going extinct is to transform them  into glorified free-range farm animals, rarer but no less domesticated than sheep or cows, then that's what should be done. "Give me  [the name of] one animal that went extinct while farmers were breeding  it," asks South African rhino rancher John Hume. "There's not one." It may seem repugnant to use the profits derived from shooting  animals to protect those same animals, but as Hume says near the start of  the film, after watching his ranch hands drug a rhino and preemptively cut off its horn to make it unattractive to poachers, "If  [this animal] had an opinion to give you, he would probably say 'I'm  happy to sacrifice my horn to save my life.'" Advertisement Then there's the  vise-grip of the global marketplace, which drives many poor Africans to  poach for meat or to sell prized trophies (such as rhino horns) on the  black market, where they can fetch a higher price per gram than heroin  or gold. Every decision made in relation to hunting affects someone,  often adversely. The lingering stench of colonialism hovers over every  sentence uttered onscreen.One long, wrenching sequence in "Trophy"  shows a white anti-poacher leading a team onto a nearby farmhouse to  look for a black man suspected of poaching, then intimidating a group of  young suspected poachers by warning them that if they keep doing this,  they could end up getting shot by somebody like him. But the visuals in  these scenes and others are politically charged, in ways that the  filmmakers seem keenly aware of. In Africa, in North America,  everywhere, it's usually white people (on both sides of the issue)  telling black people, often poor ones, what they can or can't do with  wild animals. As sympathetic as we might be towards exotic creatures and  the humans who adore them, it's still chilling to see a beefy white man  barge into a tiny black woman's house in the middle of the night, shine  a flashlight in her face, and force her to lie in the dirt while he  interrogates her. "He's a bad guy, and he's done bad things," the  wildlife officer says of her husband. "Please don't beat me," she asks. The  movie seems like a roughly assembled collection of scenes, arranged in  an "on the one hand/on the other hand" manner. But if you pay attention  not just to what's being said but how the film is structured and which sentiments get repeated, you realize that the  filmmakers are building rather masterfully towards a central argument  that encompasses every person and point-of-view.  This entire story is about capitalism run amok. Whatever makes money is going to happen one way or another, no matter what laws are passed, no matter what lofty sentiments are expressed, no matter what justifications people on various sides of an issue give for whatever they believe. What's ultimately at stake here is the question of whether "the  commodification of wildlife," as one activist puts it, is morally much  worse than the commodification of everything else on the planet, including human life—and  whether we need to be less idealistic about solutions, now that we appear  to be barreling towards some kind of global political and environmental reckoning. The  human species has been altering, processing, consuming and destroying  nature to suit its own ends, often with specious religious or political  justifications, since the dawn of civilization. The technology has just  become more efficient. The recent push to restrict or end hunting is  occurring against the backdrop of a natural landscape that might have  ceased to exist without the subsidies of hunters and people  catering to hunters, the same group whose urge to kill thinned the rhino population from 500,000 in 1900 to about 30,000 today. And some believe that the only way to keep rhinos and other species alive is to continue catering to the same humans who nearly wiped them out.Advertisement This may seem like a horrendous conundrum, but it's  real, it's not going away, and a good part of the running time of "Trophy" is dedicated to  exploring it. Ecologist Chris Packer tells the filmmakers  that he thinks canned hunts are less defensible than the European and  American-dominated safaris that thinned the African game population a  hundred years ago, because prior generations of hunters would track a lone animal through the jungle or across the plains for weeks,  while rich tourists might shoot several animals at once on a ranch, so fast that their beer is still cold when they pose for celebratory pictures. But if  you're killing an animal with a gun, often from so far away that it  doesn't even know you're there, why be incremental with your  condemnation or approval? If rhinos, elephants, lions and the like are  almost certain to be wiped out by poachers if controlled hunting isn't  allowed, then shouldn't societies allow it? Outside of a safari industry convention in Las Vegas, a protester holds  up a sign that reads "Killing isn't conservation." But it is. The entire  running time of "Trophy" is dedicated to examining how both sentiments  can be true. This is a brilliant, maddening, necessary movie.