You could callRoger Vadimthe Flo Ziegfield of the movies. He'sthe French director who discovered and marriedBrigitte Bardot, discoveredCatherine Deneuve, married Annette Stroyberg andJane Fonda, and has nowdiscovered (on "The Guiding Light," a CBS soap opera) one CindyPickett, a native of Houston who is described in the movie's production notesas a "supple, green-eyed blonde." CindyPickett may be, for all I know, Vadim's best discovery. There is no way for meto find out because all I have to go on is Vadim's new movie "NightGames," starring Pickett as a neurotic and sexually repressed Bel Airhousewife. The movie is so awkwardly put together from such a dumb screenplaythat there is just no telling if Vadim is right in describing her as havingmore dramatic potential than any other actress he has ever worked with. Advertisement Onething's for sure: Potential like that deserves a better movie than "NightGames," which even Vadirn doesn't think is the greatest movie since"And God Created Woman." Herehe is, talking about the project in an interview with me last January:"There is nothing worse than to be around without working ... and I knew Iwould have to do something. I can't say it's the greatest script I've ever had.The dialogue is not always as good as it could be. I kept askingRaymond Chow,the producer, to hire writers to work on the dialogue, but he wouldn't." Notthe embodiment of enthusiasm. To be fair to Vadim, who does have talent,"Night Games" looks like it was shot on a bargain basement budget.Pickett stars as the housewife, whose rich publisher husband Jason has givenher (I quote here from the synopsis) "money, a beautiful house, clothes,cars, everything except the ability, to experience a full and normal sexualrelationship." Jasonsurprises her with a birthday party (shot so ineptly and with such bad soundthat it almost seems as if the movie's crew was not invited). Then they beginto make love, but she reacts violently, Jason flies off to London, and Cindy isleft alone in the vast mansion. Whatwe get next is a long, ambitious passage of fantasy that we never, alas, quiteunderstand. Pickett mopes around the mansion. She has erotic dreams. She isvisited by a phantom lover. In one sustained sequence, she is pursued throughthe Mansion it night. Why? By whom? Perhaps by Sion (Paul Jenkins), thebrawling Welsh poet who might have stayed behind in the house after the partyguests left. Or perhaps everything is in her imagination... Themovie's conclusion is dated, awkward, and insultingly sexist. Pickett's demonlover engages her in a series of "night games" - dreams? realities? -and finally rapes her. And during the rape, she flashes back to long-repressedmemories of when she was attacked by a man during her girlhood. It goes withoutsaying in trash of this sort that these childhood traumas, when recalled,immediately evaporate - leaving our heroine free to truly love Jason when hereturns from London. Advertisement Well,the movie's premise is obviously shoddy. But is the movie's visual strategy anybetter? Are we really thrilled by those nighttime chases through the desertedmansion? Not really. Therecent standard in these matters is probably John Carpenter's"Halloween," which aimed for almost pure terror, for nighttime chasescenes uncluttered by anything except the shock-producing apparatus of thevisual style. At that basic level of craftsmanship, Vadim is just not asskillful. So "Night Games" not only has a premise that offends us,but doesn't even work on the level of dumb exploitation.