Dr.Hunter S. Thompsonis the high priest of Gonzo journalism, areporting style in which the reporter throws himself wildly into the event heis reporting, so that in a way he becomes the event. Karl Lazlo (not his realname) was a Mexican-American attorney Thompson met in the late 1960s andimmortalized in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, a book in which, "speakingas your attorney," Lazlo regularly advised his client to ingest large quantitiesof booze, drugs and pills. The purpose: to ward off paranoia and insanity asthe two engaged on a drunken odyssey through the craziness of the Vegas Strip. Advertisement TheVegas book was followed by Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail, in whichThompson terrorized the 1972 presidential campaign as a correspondent forRolling Stone. His mere presence was enough to cause terror in the hearts ofadvance men. The last appearance - or rather disappearance - of Lazlo inThompson's writing is in "The Banshee Screams for Buffalo Meat," a1976 Rolling Stone article in which the doctor speculates that his attorney hasdisappeared for good and been murdered. "Wherethe Buffalo Roam" is a comedy inspired by the relationship betweenThompson (Bill Murray) and Lazlo (Peter Boyle). The credits say it's"based on the twisted legend of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson." The doctorhas become an American folk legend not only through his increasingly infrequentand incoherent Rolling Stone articles, but also through his frequent walk-ons(as Raoul Duke) in the comic strip Doonesbury. We know his uniform: eyeshade,cigarette holder, garish Hawaiian shirt, bermuda, shorts, bottle of Wild Turkeyor similar beverage. InDoonesbury, the character fights crisis with paranoia. In real life, Thompsonhas proven no more immune to the effects of alcohol and drug addiction thananybody else, and lives in isolation in his cabin In Woody Creek, Colo., wherehe has written almost nothing worth reading since his original brilliant books.He seems to be spending these latter days of his fame having almost as much funasBrendan Behandid. But"Where the Buffalo Roam" is a celebration of the self-created publiclegend of Hunter Thompson, with no insights, or hints into the dark night ofhis soul. That's a legitimate approach, and there are times during the moviewhen it works: There are really funny moments here, as when we learn thatThompson's dog has been trained to go berserk at the mention of Nixon, or whenThompson covers the Super Bowl by staging a football game in his hotel suite,or when he pulls a gun on a telephone, or turns a hospital room into an orgy,or attempts to impersonate a correspondent from the Washington Post. An amazingnumber of these scenes are inspired by real life - although it was Sen. GeorgeMcGovern, not Richard Nixon, who found himself being interviewed by Thompsonwhile standing at a urinal. Welaugh at a lot of these moments; this is the kind of bad movie that's almostworth seeing. But there are large things wrong with "Where the BuffaloRoam." One of them is its depiction of the relationship between Thompson andLazlo. That's what the movie is supposed to be about, and yet we never discoverwhy these two characters like one another. What is their relationship, asidefrom the coincidence that they happen to get stoned or drunk together inbizarre circumstances? Are they even really friends? Because the movie'scentral relationship just isn't there, the events don't matter so much: We getbizarre episodes but no insights. Advertisement Theother problem is that the Dr. Thompson character never seems to really feel theeffects of the chemicals he hurls so recklessly at his system. Murray playsThompson well but in a mostly one-level performance: He walks through the mostinsane situations with a quizzical monotone, a gift for understatement, adrug-induced trance. Any real person drinking and drugging like Thompson wouldhave an occasional high, and a more than occasional disastrous low. Here he hasneither. Andso the movie fails to deal convincingly with either Thompson's addictions orwith his friendship with Lazlo. It becomes just a series of set pieces,oft-told tales about the wild and crazy things he's done while he was zonked.We wish him well, but we leave the theater wondering, a little cynically, ifThompson has had as much fun destroying himself as we've had watching him.