“Airplane!” is a comedy in the great tradition of high schoolskits, theSid CaesarTV show, Mad magazine, and the dog-eared screenplayspeople's nephews write in lieu of earning their college diplomas. It issophomoric, obvious, predictable, corny, and quite often very funny. And thereason it's funny is frequently because it's sophomoric, predictable, corny,etc. Example: AirplaneCaptain (Peter Graves): Surely you can't be serious. Doctor(Leslie Nielsen): I am serious. And don’t call me Shirley. Advertisement Thissort of humor went out withMilton Berle,Jerry Lewis, and knock-knock jokes.That's why it's so funny. Movie comedies these days are so hung up on beingcontemporary, radical, outspoken, and cynically satirical that they sometimesforget to be funny. And they've lost the nerve to be as corny as “Airplane!” —to actually invite loud groans from the audience. The flop “Wholly Moses,” forexample, is no doubt an infinitely more intelligent comedy—but the problem was,we didn't laugh. “Airplane!”has a couple of sources for its inspiration. One of them is obviously “Airport”(1970) and all of its sequels and rip-offs. The other might not comeimmediately to mind unless you're a fan of the late show. It's “Zero Hour”(1957), which starred the quintessential 1950s B-movie cast of Dana Andrews,Linda Darnell, andSterling Hayden. "Airplane!" comes from the samestudio (Paramount) and therefore is able to cheerfully borrow the same plot(airliner is imperiled after the crew and most of the passengers are strickenwith food poisoning). The “Zero Hour” crisis situation (how to get the airplanedown) was also borrowed for the terrible “Airport 1975,” in whichKaren Blackplayed a stewardess who tried to follow instructions radioed from the ground. “Airplane!”has two desperate people in the cockpit:Julie Hagerty, as the stewardess, andRobert Hays, as a former Air Force pilot whose traumatic war experiences havemade him terrified of flying. (The cockpit also contains a very kinky automaticpilot … but never mind.) The movie exploits the previous films for all they're worth. The passenger listincludes a little old lady (like Helen Hayes in “Airport”), a guitar-playingnun (like Helen Reddy in “Airport 1975”), and even a critically ill little girlwho's being flown to an emergency operation (Linda Blairplayed the role in“Airport 1975”). Predictable results occur, as when the nun's guitar knocksloose the little girl's intravenous tubes, and she nearly dies while all thepassengers sing along inspirationally. The movie's funniest scene, however, occurs in a flashbackexplaining how the stewardess and the Air Force pilot first met and fell inlove years ago. The scene takes place in an exotic Casablanca-style bar, whichis miraculously transformed when somebody's hurled at the jukebox and it startsplaying "Stayin' Alive" by the Bee Gees. The scene becomes ahilarious send-up of the disco scenes in “Saturday Night Fever,” with the youngpilot defying gravity to impress the girl. “Airplane!”is practically a satirical anthology of classic movie clichés.Lloyd Bridges,as the ground-control officer, seems to be satirizing half of his straightroles. The opening titles get an enormous laugh with an unexpected reference to“Jaws.” The neurotic young pilot is talked back into the cockpit in a scenefrom “Knute Rockne, All American.” And the romantic scenes are played as a soapopera. None of this really adds up to great comic artistry, but “Airplane!”compensates for its lack of original comic invention by its utter willingnessto steal, beg, borrow, and rewrite from anywhere. Advertisement