Mrs. Seward, the draconian rhetoric teacher who drilled literacyinto generations of Urbana (Ill.) High School students, used to tell us we werehaving the best four years of our lives. We groaned. Fame is a movie that shemight have enjoyed. It's about a dozen or so talented kids who enter New York'sHigh School of the Performing Arts as freshmen and emerge four years later asfuture Freddie Prinzes and Benny Goodmans, Leonard Bernsteins and Mrs. Sewards. "Fame"is a genuine treasure, moving and entertaining, a movie that understands beinga teen-ager as well as "Breaking Away" did, but studies its charactersin a completely different milieu. It's the other side of the coin: A big-city,aggressive, cranked-up movie to play against the quieter traditions of"Breaking Away'"s small Indiana college town. "Fame" is allNew York City. It's populated by rich kids, ghetto kids, kids with real talent,and kids with mothers who think they have real talent. They all go into thehopper, into a high school of kids who are worked harder because they're"special" -- even if they're secretly not so sure they're so special. Advertisement Themovie has the kind of sensitivity to the real lives of real people that wedon't get much in Hollywood productions anymore. Anyone who ever went to highschool will recognize some of Fame's characters: the quiet little girl whoblossoms, the class genius who locks himself up in the basement with hiselectronic equipment, the kid who can't read but is a naturally giftedperformer, the wiseass, the self-destructive type, the sexpot, the rich kid,and on and on. The cast has been recruited from New York's most talented youngperformers, some of them almost playing themselves. The teachers are familiartoo: self-sacrificing, perfectionist, cranky, love-hate objects. Ifthe character types seem familiar, the movie's way of telling their stories isnot. This isn't a movie that locks its characters into a conventional plot.Instead, it fragments the experiences of four years into dozens of vignettes,loosely organized into sections titled "The Auditions,""Freshman Year," and so on. We get to know the characters and theirpersonalities gradually, as we see them in various situations. The effect is alittle like high school itself; you come in as a total stranger and by the timeyou leave, the school has become your world. Ifthe kids in "Fame" are like high school kids anywhere, they're alsodifferent because they are talented, and the movie's at its best when itexamines the special pressures on young people who are more talented than theyare mature, experienced, or sure of themselves. The ghost that hovers overeveryone in this school is a former graduate, Freddie Prinze, who had thetalent but never figured out how to handle it. Themovie's director,Alan Parker, seems to have a knack for isolating just thosemoments in the lives of his characters when growth, challenge, and talent areall on the line at once. Where did he find his insights into talented youngpeople? Probably while he was directing his first film, the wonderful"Bugsy Malone" (1976), which was a gangster musical with an all-kidcast. Fame is a perfect title for this movie; it establishes an ironic distancebetween where these kids are now and where they'd like to be someday, and thenthere's also the haunting suggestion that some of the ones who find fame willbe able to handle it, and some will not. Advertisement