One of the things that makes "Saturday Night Live"funny is that it's on television, so we're supposed to be slightly scandalizedby its irreverence. It takes on sex, religion and politics, subjects that wereout of bounds during TV's early years, and so cloaks itself in a fashionabledaring. We laugh at some of the stuff not so much because it's funny as becauseit's on TV at all. Proofof this is a very bad new comedy named "Wholly Moses!" which is thefirst feature film by "Saturday Night" director Gary Weis. The moviedepends for its effect on the kind of shock value the TV show has, and it seemsto he under the impression that that's enough. It kids the Old Testament, ithas angels with wings that fall off, its narrator says things like "He sather upon her ass," and we're expected to laugh. Advertisement Ididn't. The movie's not funny on its own, and since movie audiences arescarcely going to be shocked by its mild but relentlessly repetitiveirreverence, it all boils down to a very old joke. The screenplay is third-ratecollege humor, a "satire" that doesn't dare really satirize its allegedsource, a newly discovered Dead Sea scroll, since the audience might not haveheard of the Dead Sea scrolls, and so tries for laughs instead with one of theoldest gimmicks in the book: dressing people up in Biblical costume and havingthem speak in contemporary terms. Tothis old wheeze has been added another one, the inspiration of casting all theminor rules with comic actors we'll recognize from other movies. The cast starsDudley Mooreand includesJames Coco,Paul Sand,Richard Pryor,Jack Gilford,Dom DeLuise,Madeline Kahn,John RitterandJohn Houseman, and it is acommentary on the film that none of them are particularly funny, although theaudience did applaud Pryor, out of sympathy, no doubt. MaybeWeis doesn't know that comic actors, even good ones, are rarely funny in and ofthemselves. They need characters to play, and they need funny material."Wholly Moses!" doesn't have it. Example: Madeline Kahn plays anitinerant aphrodisiac peddler. She gives Dudley Moore a lift in her cart, heguzzles some of her patent aphrodisiacs and begins to get fresh, and she pusheshim out of the cart. That's it. But the movie finds it necessary to supply twoshots of the sign painted on her cart, so we'll remember she sells aphrodisiacsand get the joke. This movie was made either by or for very stupid people, orboth. Onemeasurement of its failure is Dudley Moore's hapless performance in the lead.Moore is a very funny actor, something he has proven not only in his big hitcomedy "10" but also in thousands of stage appearances with hissometime sidekickPeter Cook, and in a wonderful but half-forgotten 1968 comedynamed "Bedazzled." Here he's totally at a loss. Themovie is told in flashback, and he plays both a tourist who stumbles acrosssome hitherto undiscovered Dead Sea scrolls, and the hero of the scrolls. Thescrolls are about Hershel, a baby boy whose tiny boat of rushes was floatedonto the Nile at the same time as Moses', but who had the misfortune to be justa little bit further upstream all of his life. Moses gets the glory, andHershel forever finds himself trying to put out the fire in the burning bush.If the idea here sounds familiar, maybe that's because it's parallel to MontyPython's more accomplished (and more successfully shocking) "Life ofBrian." Advertisement Mooremarches manfully through the script, but the movie sabotages all theperformances with a sound track that sounds phoned in from the bottom of awell, and with editing so inept that Moore's big scene with Pryor hasbackgrounds that don't match from shot to shot. Nor are Pryor and Moore in thesame shot for most of the scene, which looks as if Pryor was encouraged to dohis schtick and then reaction shots of Moore were edited in afterward. Thewhole movie's like that: It feels like a series of "guest star" cameoappearances on a TV show we wouldn't want to see in the first place.