It was in last summer's terrible "Americathon," as Irecall, that the rock singerMeat Loafsingle-handedly demolished an auto. Thatsort of thing tends to get your attention. NowMr. Loaf is back in a starring role, in "Roadie." He plays a geniusinventor who can fix, build or remodel anything - and who is whisked away fromhis native Texas to be a roadie for a rock group. (The difference between aroadie and a groupie is that a roadie fixes a group's equipment, whereas agroupie services it.) Advertisement Theidea for "Roadie" has a certain charm, especially with Meat Loaf inthe title role. He's a large, cheerful, reasonably engaging performer who isconvincing as a Texan, and no wonder: He was born in Dallas and attended noless than three Texas colleges, majoring, it says, here, in football. He playsa kid from a family of inventors; his crackpot father (Art Carney) inhabits ahouse jammed with gadgets and gimmicks, of which my favorite is a telephonebooth that slides outside the house on a rail if you want extra privacy. MeatLoaf happily inhabits this milieu as a beer truck driver until a rock bandpasses through. Their van breaks down, he fixes it, romance blossoms with theband's resident groupie (Kaki Hunter), and he's signed on for the tour. Thetour is an invaluable plot device, since it explains a cross-country odysseyduring which our heroes meet all sorts of famous singing stars, including HankWilliams Jr., Roy Orbison, Alice Cooper, Asleep at the Wheel, andDeborah Harrywith Blondie. Ifthe movie had given us more of their songs, this could have qualified as aconcert movie. If it had given us more of Meat Loaf, it might have developedinto a character study. But "Roadie" never makes up its mind. Themovie's so genial, disorganized and episodic that we never really care aboutthe characters, and yet whenever someone starts to sing the performance isinterrupted for more meaningless plot development. AndMeat Loaf himself is badly used: His inimitable charisma and stage presence arenever exploited, he never gets a chance to sing, and he disappears into hisboozy role as a laid-back Good Ol' Boy when he might have helped the movie bygoing berserk. Thereare a few good moments. One comes when a rock concert is canceled by anenvironmental group because it will use too much energy. Combining the bestqualities of Ralph Nader and Rube Goldberg, Meat Loaf teams up a windmill, asteam boiler and a solar reflector to power the concert. Advertisement AliceCooper has some nice moments, explaining to Kaki Hunter that he's a nice, quietlad by day, and that becoming the reprehensible onstage Alice is just somethinghe does for a living. Debby Harry of Blondie has an intriguing quality,although we only get glimpses of it -- one of the movie's constant irritationsis the way it cuts away from its stars to dwell on the peculiarities of itssupporting cast. Footnote:"Roadie" is being shown in some situations in Dolby Stereo, but thatwas little inspiration to the audiences at the Water Tower theater Sundayafternoon. One Dolby channel was out to lunch, so that the movie's dialogsounded thin and distorted, and the music either boomed or whispered. Icomplained about the sound and was informed the system was on the blink;doesn't a theater have an obligation in a situation like that (especially witha movie where hearing the music's the whole point) to post a warning at the boxoffice?