You've got to give "Rough Cut" credit for payinghomage to its sources. It begins withBurt Reynoldsdoing his imitation of CaryGrant, and, indeed, this is just the sort of suave thriller Cary Grant mighthave made, complete with its several references to films byAlfred Hitchcock.Reynolds is playing in the right league - he can mix subtle eroticism and slywit in ways that do sometimes remind us of Grant - but the movie itself doesn'tquite make it. It'sfun, it's slick and it's carefully put together, but it's more of an exercisethan an accomplishment. Everyone does their schtick, the plot complicationsunfold like clockwork, but we find ourselves not really caring. That was thething about Hitchcock: He often reached technical perfection, but rarely at thecost of involving us on a gut level. Advertisement Thedirector this time is another Hollywood master,Don Siegel, whose biggestsuccesses recently have starredClint Eastwood. Siegel's very good at actionpictures, but when he lets up on the reins a little, as he does here in anattempt at a sophisticated tone, the movie has a tendency to go flat. There aremoments when "Rough Cut" is just marking time, and a thriller shouldnever give us that feeling. Themovie's about a master thief (Burt Reynolds) who meets a beautiful girl at aparty, discovers that she's a thief, and falls in love with her. The girl(Lesley-Anne Down) turns out to be more complicated than she seems. She's akleptomaniac who's being blackmailed by Scotland Yard's chief inspector (DavidNiven). He's after bigger game he wants to arrest Reynolds as a suitable climaxto his career - and he wants to use the girl as bait. Sohere we have a nice, tricky situation that only grows more complicated whenReynolds begins to suspect what's up, and then, of course, there are all sortsof other developments I wouldn't dream of revealing. This is the kind ofdouble-reverse situation Hitchcock used to like: As the man and woman fall inlove, their romantic feelings get entangled with the crimes they're involvedin, and the climax involves both ethical and romantic decisions. Oneof the problems here, though, is that we don't care enough about the chemistrybetween Burt Reynolds and Lesley-Anne Down. They're assigned to a fencing matchof dialogue that's just a little too clever to contain real emotions. We can'ttell at times if they'd rather seem honest or clever. Still,David Niventurns in one of his patented performances as the world-weary, braveand cynical establishment figure, although we find at the end we didn'tunderstand him as well as we thought. Andthe sound track works overtime at establishing the mood: Nelson Riddle hasorchestrated the action with arrangements ofDuke Ellingtonclassics, whichsometimes sound very suave indeed but are sometimes crashingly obvious, as whena parade of police cars is accompanied by "Caravan." Thereare other references to classical sources. "Rough Cut" has at leastthree specific references to Hitchcock (the second story job, from "ToCatch a Thief," a police car chasing a speeding heroine, from"Notorious," and windmills as a cover for an airfield, from"Foreign Correspondent"). Combine those with the Cary Grant imitationand you have a movie that's being very clear about the category it wants tocompete in. But it doesn't make it out of the semifinals. Advertisement