"Brubaker" is a grim and depressing drama about prisonoutrages - a movie that should, given its absolutely realistic vision, havekept us involved from beginning to end. That it doesn't is the result, I think,of a deliberate but unwise decision to focus on the issues involved in thestory, instead of on the characters. Allthe people in this movie have roles that represent something; there's theIdealistic Reformer, the Pragmatic Politician, the Corrupt Administrator, theNoble Prisoner, the Tough Guard. The problem is that once they're assigned anideological niche at the beginning of the movie, they behave with absolute consistency.There's no room for the spontaneity of real human personalities caught in realsituations. Advertisement That'sespecially annoying with the character of Brubaker himself, played well butwithin a frustratingly narrow range byRobert Redford. Brubaker is the reformwarden assigned to clean up the violence and corruption of Wakefield PrisonFarm, a hellhole of sadism where no guards are needed because the prisonertrusties are armed and get time off their sentences for shooting escapees. Themovie's first 20 or 30 minutes, which are sickeningly effective, documentconditions in the prison, where the commonplaces include beatings, bribery,rape and slum living conditions. Brubakerfinds out about these outrages firsthand. He has himself been brought into theprison anonymously, as a prisoner. This is supposed to provide the movie'sbiggest surprise, when he finally steps forward and identifies himself, but allthe ads for the movie spoil the surprise by identifying Redford as the warden. Whatseems a little unlikely in these opening scenes is that Redford, as a newprisoner, would emerge unscathed: He observes, he listens and he's mostly leftalone by the other prisoners, even though his fellow new recruits are beingraped, beaten and forced into the prison's system of corruption. AfterRedford takes charge, the movie disintegrates into predictability. He takes aposition in favor of progressive reforms, and the state board of correctionstakes a position in favor of corrupt business as usual. Some interestingcharacters, are introduced, especiallyYaphet Kottoas a hard-boiled trusty whocan't make up his mind about the warden, andJane Alexander, as a pragmaticaide to the state governor.Murray Hamilton, as a corrupt member of the stateprison board, does his usual venal capitalist and does it well, but he hasplayed this role so frequently (in the two "Jaws" movies, forexample), that he must know it by heart. Advertisement Inthe meantime, we're growing a little restless because of the movie's refusal topermit its characters more human dimensions. We want to know these peoplebetter, but the screenplay throws up a wall; they act according to theideological positions assigned to them in the screenplay, and that's that. Halfof Redford's speeches could have come out of newspaper editorials, but we neverfind out much about him, What's his background? Was he ever married? Is thishis first prison job? What's his relationship with the Jane Alexandercharacter, who seems to have gotten him this job? (Alexander has one almostsubliminal moment when she fans her neck and looks at Redford and, seems to bethinking unpolitical thoughts, but the movie hurries on.) "Brubaker"is a well-crafted film that does a harrowingly effective job of portraying thedetails of its prison, but then it populates it with positions rather thanpeople.