Allegories have trouble standing for something else if they aretoo convincing as themselves. That is the difficulty with "The TinDrum," which is either (a) an allegory about one person's protest againstthe inhumanity of the world, or (b) the story of an obnoxious little boy. Themovie invites us to see the world through the eyes of little Oskar, who on histhird birthday refuses to do any more growing up because the world is such acruel place. My problem is that I kept seeing Oskar not as a symbol of couragebut as an unsavory brat; the film's foreground obscured its larger meaning. Advertisement Sowhat does that make me? An anti-intellectual philistine? I hope not. But if itdoes, that's better than caving in to the tumult of publicity and praise for"The Tin Drum," which has shared the Grand Prix at Cannes (with"Apocalypse Now") and won the Academy Award as best foreign film, andis hailed on all fronts for its brave stand against war and nationalism and infavor of the innocence of childhood. Actually,I don't think little Oskar is at all innocent in this film; a malevolence seemsto burn from his eyes, and he's compromised in his rejection of the world'sevil by his own behavior as the most spiteful, egocentric, cold and calculatingcharacter in the film (all right: except for Adolf Hitler). Thefilm has been adapted by the West German filmmakerVolker Schlondorfffrom the1959 novel by Gunter Grass, who helped with the screenplay. It chronicles thecareer of little Oskar, who narrates his own life story starting with hismother's conception in a potato patch. Oskar is born into a world divided: inthe years after World War I, both Germans and Poles live in the state ofDanzig, where they get along about as well as Catholics and Protestants inBelfast. Oskarhas fathers of both nationalities (for reasons too complicated to explainhere), and he is not amused by the nationalistic chauvinism he sees around him.So, on his third birthday, he reaches a conscious decision to stop growing. Heprovides a plausible explanation for his decision by falling down the basementstairs. And for the rest of the movie he remains arrested in growth: asolemn-faced, beady-eyed little tyke who never goes anywhere without a tin drumwhich he beats on incessantly. For his other trick, he can scream so loudlythat he shatters glass. Thereis a scene in which Oskar's drum so confuses a Nazi marching band that itswitches from a Nazi hymn to "The Blue Danube." The crashingobviousness of this scene aside, I must confess that the symbolism of the drumfailed to involve me. Andhere we are at the central problem of the movie: Should I, as a member of theaudience, decide to take the drum as, say, a child's toy protest against themarching cadences of the German armies? Or should I allow myself to be annoyedby the child's obnoxious habit of banging on it whenever something's not to hisliking? Even if I buy the wretched drum as a Moral Symbol, I'm still stuck withthe kid as a pious little bastard. Advertisement Butwhat about the other people in the movie? Oskar is right at the middle of thetug-of-war over Danzig and, by implication, over Europe. People are choosing upsides between the Poles and the Nazis. Meanwhile, all around him, adultduplicity is a way of life. Oskar's mother, for example, sneaks away onThursday afternoons for an illicit sexual interlude. Oskar interrupts herdalliance with a scream that supplies work for half the glassmakers in Danzig.Does this make him a socialist or an Oedipus? Soonafter, he finds himself on the road with a troupe of performing midgets. Heshatters glasses on cue, marches around in uniform and listens as the troupe'sleader explains that little people have to stay in the spotlight or big peoplewill run the show. This idea is the last Oskar needs to have implanted in hismind. Themovie juxtaposes Oskar's one-man protest with the horror of World War II. But Iam not sure what the juxtaposition means. Did I miss everything? I've obviouslytaken the story on a literal level, but I don't think that means I misread thefilm as it stands. Ifwe come in armed with the Grass novel and a sheaf of reviews, it's maybe justpossible to discipline ourselves to read "The Tin Drum" as a solemnallegorical statement. But if we take the chance of just watching what's on thescreen, Schlondorff never makes the connection. We're stuck with this cretinouslittle kid, just when Europe has enough troubles of its own.