This movie made me itch. It's about a young girl and a young boywho are shipwrecked on a beautiful Pacific Island. It shows how they grow up,mostly at sunset. It follows their progress as they discover sex and smilesweetly at each other, in that order. It concludes with a series of scenesdesigned to inspire the question: If these two young people had grown up incivilized surroundings, wouldn't they have had to repeat the fourth grade? "TheBlue Lagoon" is the dumbest movie of the year. It could conceivably havebeen made interesting, if any serious attempt had been made to explore whatmight really happen if two 7-year-old kids were shipwrecked on an island. Butthis isn't a realistic movie. It's a wildly idealized romance, in which thekids live in a hut that looks like a Club Med honeymoon cottage, while restlessnatives commit human sacrifice on the other side of the island. (It is ameasure of the filmmakers' desperation that the kids and the natives never meetone another and the kids leave the island without even one obligatory scene ofbeing tied to a stake.) Advertisement Whywas this movie made? Presumably becauseRandal Kleiser, the director andproducer, read the 1903 novel it's based on and vowed that this story had to bebrought to the screen. It had been filmed previously, as Jean Simmons' 1949movie debut, but no matter. Kleiser had another go. It'sintriguing to try to guess, on the basis of the film he made, what he thoughtthe original story had to tell us. This movie could have been made as a tale ofwilderness survival: The Swiss Family Robinson Meets Lord of the Flies. ButKleiser's details about daily life are wildly unconvincing. This movie could havebeen made as an adventure epic, but, as I've already mentioned, the threat ofthe natives on the other side of the island is introduced only to be dropped.This movie could have been made as a soft-core sex film, but it's toorestrained: There are so many palms carefully arranged in front of genitalareas, and Brooke Shields' long hair is so carefully draped to conceal herbreasts, that there must have been a whole squad of costumers and setdecorators on permanent Erogenous Zone Alert. Let'sface it. Going into this film knowing what we've heard about it, we'reanticipating the scenes in which the two kids discover the joys of sex. This isa prurient motive on our part, and we're maybe a little ashamed of it, but ourshame turns to impatience as Kleiser intercuts countless shots of the birds andthe bees (every third shot in this movie seems to be showing a parrot'sreaction to something). And there is no way to quite describe my feelings aboutthe scene that takes place the morning after the young couple have finally madelove. They go swimming, see two gigantic turtles copulating, and smile sweetlyat each other. Based on the available evidence in the movie, they know more atthis point about the sex lives of turtles than about their own. Butwait. These kids aren't finished. They have a baby, after long, puzzled monthsof trying to figure out those stirring feelings in the girl's stomach."Why did you have a baby?" the boy asks. "I don't know,"the girl says. They try to feed the kid fresh fruit, and then they look on inwonder as the baby demonstrates the theory and practice of breast-feeding (sothat's what they're for!). Themovie's ending is enraging. It turns out the boy's father has been sailing theSouth Seas for years, looking for the castaways, who meanwhile manage to setthemselves adrift at open sea again (they lose their oars ... but never mind).Despairing of being rescued, the kids have just eaten berries that are supposedto put them permanently asleep. Then their unconscious bodies are rescued. Willthey live? Die? What were those berries, anyway? The movie cops out: The burdenof contriving an ending was apparently too much for such a feeble movie tosupport. Advertisement