How long has it been since we saluted our least-favorite movieingredient, the Idiot Plot? Too long, I think we all agree. The Idiot Plot,you'll recall, is a movie plot that depends on everyone in the movie being anidiot. If they were not, the movie would be over within 15 minutes and we couldall go home. But that never happens in an Idiot Plot; The characters make suchincredibly stupid blunders that we're stuck for a whole movie, watching themwander fecklessly through their own lives. Advertisement "TheHearse" is perhaps this summer's best example of an Idiot Plot. The idiotin the movie is a young woman, played byTrish Van Deverein the spirit of adetergent commercial, who decides to move to a small town to live in the houseof her dead aunt. She makes this decision (we learn in a pointless scene with apsychiatrist) because she wants to put the events of the past year behind her.If she'd also put the events of the next year behind her, we'd all be a lotbetter off. Anyway,she drives to the town late at night, and is almost run off the road by agigantic black hearse. An ominous sign. Once in town, she's shown around thehouse by a crusty old attorney (Joseph Cotten) who thinks it should have beenhis. Site also has a run-in with the local sheriff, who is crude and rude, andwith the local adolescent boys, who drive past while she's jogging and screambrainlessly, never having seen such a sight before, I guess. Anyway,Trish moves into the house, and immediately there are the usual ominous signs.Let's see how many I can remember. A music box plays by itself. A door slams byitself. The long-dead aunt appears in a mirror. She appears behind a window.There are footsteps on the stairs. Windows are broken. Doors are broken. Thehardware store owner won't deliver to her house. The local minister hints atevil goings-on. While Trish Is taking a shower, the camera gives us apoint-of-view shot going up the stairs, approaching the shower curtain ... andthen going away (the cameraman was chicken?). On two more occasions, the hearsetries to run her off the road.Every night, another ominous manifestation terrifies her. Every morning, she'sjolly again, and goes in to shop at the hardware store and be insulted by thelocal teen-age louts. Meanwhile,young Tom turns up. He's polite, handsome, old-fashioned. Trish kinda likeshim. This proves she's an idiot, since everybody in the audience figures outimmediately that Tom is a ghost, and was the boyfriend of the dead aunt. ButTrish doesn't know this. She continues to live in this house long after everysingle member of the audience would have moved back to Rogers Park. This placemakes the Amityville Horror look like open house at a condominium. Oneof the real cheats of the movie is that it never provides a consistentframework for all the terrible things that take place. Things happen withoutany context: The minister, for example, believes the house is haunted by thedevil, and arrives one night with a Bible, rather theatrically screaming,"Get thee behind me, Satan," while obligatory gusts of wind tear athis gray locks. But is Satan involved? Is the house merely haunted? What doesthe hearse have to do with anything? Advertisement "TheHearse" qualifies as this summer's garage sale of horror movies. Itcontains all the best clichés from recent, more successful horror movies(especially "Amityville" and even "The Changeling," whichcame out last April and starred Van Devere, her husbandGeorge C. Scottand, ofcourse, the obligatory self-banging doors and self-playing musicalinstruments). But the clichés exist in a vacuum: The events in this moviehappen because they have happened in other horror movies and seemed like a goodidea at the time. We know better.