Satire has such a curious way of catching up with itself. Just afew short years ago,Chevy Chasewas on "Saturday Night Live," thatsworn enemy of our national tendency toward the smarmy. Now Chevy Chase isplaying Benji in a movie. Among the great-unrecorded conversations in Hollywoodhistory, we must now include the one in which Chevy Chase's agent convinced himthat playing Benji would be the right career move. Theconversation itself could no doubt have played on "Saturday NightLive," and there'd also be endless possibilities for the ads: You'llbelieve a man can bark! Just when we thought it was safe to go back into thepond! Advertisement "OhHeavenly Dog" is not, alas, anywhere near as funny as the thoughts itinspires. It's a total miscalculation from beginning to end, inspired by anidiotic decision to increase the average age of the Benji audience by starringhim in a movie rated PG. Let's face it. Movie audiences have a certain set ofexpectations for any movie starring a trained dog, and no mere PG rating isgoing to inspire hopes for greater wit, sophistication and maturity. There isonly so much you can do with a dog. And"Oh Heavenly Dog" does most of it. In this movie, you'll see Benjidial a telephone, open drawers, go through files, jump into cars, snuggle up toa beautiful girl, jump into her bubble bath and (oh, you PG!) bury his wet,black little nose in her cleavage. The possibilities for Benji in an R-ratingmovie are too depressing to consider. Themovie's plot crossbreeds the original Benji formula with a whodunit murdermystery and several scenes inspired by "Heaven Can Wait." The filmbegins with Chevy Chase in human form, as a London private eye who's called inon a new case. He makes a house call, discovers a corpse, and is immediatelystabbed in the back by a mysterious stranger. Thestabbing scene incorporates a movie device I detest: We only see the shoes,pants, coat, etc., of the killer, as he stabs our hero. Since the camera couldobviously show us his identity but doesn't, we're being set up for a cheap,dumb revelation scene in the end. Since the thriller genre depends absolutelyon the solution of mysteries set up early in the story, it's infuriating to getshots suggesting that the camera knows who did it, but isn't telling. Anyway.Chevy Chase dies, goes to heaven and is processed by a Mr. Higgins, who informshim that he can redeem his sinful record on Earth by going back and solving theoriginal murder. The only catch is, he'll have to go back as a dog. So themovie continues with Benji bouncing around while his thoughts are spoken on thesound track in Chevy Chase's voice. Advertisement Thispremise could have been fun if the filmmakers had used imagination in exploringthe fantasy of a man in a dog's body: The whole problem of surviving in anout-scale environment has been shown entertainingly in movies such as "TheIncredible Shrinking Man." But no. Benji is such a cute little tyke thatrealities aren't allowed to intrude, and "Oh Heavenly Dog" becomesanother one of those insufferable movies in which the plot grinds to a deadhalt while the trained dog does his tricks. You know: A-ha! The dead woman isconnected in some way with the art gallery! Now let's watch Benji pick up apencil in his teeth and dial the telephone! Everyscene in the movie is directed at the same deadening crawl, most of thedialogue is delivered in a dispirited monotone, and the solution to themystery, when it comes, is shatteringly uninteresting. Even the happy endingisn't so happy. The human female that Benji falls in love with is reincarnatedand sent back to Earth as a cat. The music swells on the sound track, and Benjiand the cat rub sensuously against each other. My own cat, who knows a greatdeal about the sex lives of cats, says spending his nights in the sack with adog is not his idea of a happy ending.