Walt Disney's "The Last Flight of Noah's Ark" is adreadful movie, bankrupt of creative imagination-an Identi-kit film, assembledfrom familiar pieces but with no identity of its own. It's so depressinglypredictable that in the last half hour we're sitting there thinking: Let's see... the raft has put out to sea, so there has to be at least one shark attackand one bad storm before they're rescued. There are. What'smost discouraging about the film is that, with its G rating and Disneytrademark, it will no doubt draw large audiences of children. Parents knowDisney movies are OK to send the kids to because there won't be any nudity orprofanity. But isn't it also poisonous for kids to be exposed to stupidcharacters, lame-brained plots and humorless "gags?" To a movielacking the sense of excitement, invention and fun that children's moviesshould have above all else? Isn't it damaging to expose a child to two hours ofdreck? Advertisement Goingto the movies should be a wonderful, challenging adventure, filled with inspirationfor marvelous fantasies. If I was a kid and I thought "The Last Flight ofNoah's Ark" was what I'd find at the movies, I'd be so turned off I'dnever go. But do today's kids even know how stimulating the movies can be? Ifthey've had a chance to see "The Black Stallion" they do-and"The Black Stallion" has returned to local theaters this week. Butback to "Noah's Ark." The plot could possibly have led to a muchbetter movie. It's about how pilotElliott Gouldis hired by missionaryGenevieve Bujoldto pilot a decrepit old B-26 to a Pacific island, where shehopes to start a missionary colony. The plane is loaded with breeding animals,and, of course, with two pint-sized stowaways (Ricky Schroderof "TheChamp" andTammy Laurenof TV's "Angie"). The plane crash-landson an unmapped island, the survivors run Into two Japanese soldiers who thinkWorld War 11 is still being fought, and everybody pitches in to turn the tophalf of the airplane shell into a raft (thus Maurice Jarre's obnoxiouslyInsipid song "Half of Me," which is sung twice to no avail). Ifany effort had been made to explore the possible realities of this situation,the movie might have been more absorbing. But no. The Japanese are turned intooffensive cartoon stereotypes, the kids go swimming, and between Gould andBujold there springs up one of those Disney relationships that consist offighting a lot and then suddenly falling into romanticized respect, interruptedby chaste kisses. There are no high points to the movie, but there is a real low point at theend. The raft is launched, it floats for an undetermined number of days, andthen our heroes are rescued by the U.S. Coast Guard! Therefore, they must havefloated into U.S. coastal waters. Therefore, they floated halfway across the Pacificand the movie hasn't even gotten excited about it. This movie isn't justboring, it's bored.