A vile bag of garbage named "I Spit on Your Grave" isplaying in Chicago theaters this week. It is a movie so sick, reprehensible andcontemptible that I can hardly believe it's playing in respectable theaters,such as Plitt'sUnited Artists. But it is. Attending it was one of the mostdepressing experiences of, my life. Thisis a film without a shred of artistic distinction. It lacks even simplecraftsmanship. There is no possible motive for exhibiting it, other than thetotally cynical hope that it might make money. Perhaps it will make money: WhenI saw it at 11:20 a.m. on Monday, the theater contained a larger crowd thanusual. Advertisement Itwas not just a large crowd, it was a profoundly disturbing one. I do not oftenattribute motives to audience members, nor do I try to read their minds, butthe people who were sitting around me on Monday morning made it easy for me toknow what they were thinking. They talked out loud. And if they seriously believedthe things they were saying, they were vicarious sex criminals. Thestory of ''I Spit on Your Grave" is told with moronic simplicity. A girlgoes for a vacation in the woods. She sunbathes by a river. Two men speed by ina powerboat. They harass her. Later, they tow her boat to a rendezvous with twoof their buddies. They strip the girl, beat her and rape her. She escapes intothe woods. They find her, beat her, and rape her again. She crawls home. Theyare already there, beat her some more, and rape her again. Twoweeks later, somewhat recovered the girl lures one of the men out to her house,pretends to seduce him, and hangs him. She lures out another man and castrateshim, leaving him to bleed to death in a bathtub. She kills the third man withan axe and disembowels the fourth with an outboard engine. End of movie. Thesehorrible events are shown with an absolute minimum of dialogue, which is sopoorly recorded that it often cannot be heard. There is no attempt to developthe personalities of the characters - they are, simply, a girl and four men,one of them mentally retarded. The movie is nothing more or less than a seriesof attacks on the girl and then her attacks on the men, interrupted only by anunbelievably grotesque and inappropriate scene in which she enters a church andasks forgiveness for the murders she plans to commit. Howdid the audience react to all of this? Those who were vocal seemed to be eatingit up. The middle-aged, white-haired man two seats down from me, for example,talked aloud, After the first rape: "That was a good one!" After thesecond: "That'll show her!" After the third: "I've seen somegood ones, but this is the best." When the tables turned and the womanstarted her killing spree, a woman in the back row shouted: "Cut him up,sister!" In several scenes, the other three men tried to force theretarded man to attack the girl. This inspired a lot of laughter andencouragement from the audience. Advertisement Iwanted to turn to the man next to me and tell him his remarks were disgusting,but I did not. To hold his opinions at his age, he must already have suffered afundamental loss of decent human feelings. I would have liked to talk with thewoman in the back row, the one with the feminist solidarity for the movie'sheroine. I wanted to ask If she'd been appalled by the movie's hour of rapescenes. As it was, at the film's end I walked out of the theater quickly,feeling unclean, ashamed and depressed. Thismovie is an expression of the most diseased and perverted darker human natures,Because it is made artlessly, It flaunts its motives: There is no reason to seethis movie except to be entertained by the sight of sadism and suffering. As acritic, I have never condemned the use of violence in films if I felt thefilmmakers had an artistic reason for employing it. "I Spit on YourGrave" does not. It is a geek show. I wonder if its exhibitors saw itbefore they decided to play it, and if they felt as unclean afterward as I did.