"Raise the Titanic" is almost a good movie. It hassome wonderful moments, but they're bogged down in two moronic subplots. Why isit that they always gum up great movie Ideas by shoveling in those twoinfallible dead-ends, The Girl and The Russians? Themovie's basic premise-that it might be possible to raise and salvage the greatship Titanic-is irresistible. We get some hot scientific gobbledygook about howthe Titanic might really be in pretty good shape, down there two miles belowthe frigid Atlantic, where it wouldn't rust because of the oxygen shortage inthe water. Advertisement Maybeso. The plan to float the Titanic sure is ingenious: Pump it full of plasticfoam, attach giant inflatable balloons to its sides, and blast it free of themud. Easy as pie. Reminds me of an old Uncle Scrooge comic in which Huey, Looeyand Dewey were going to raise a sunken ship by pumping it full of Ping-Pongballs. "Raisethe Titantic" is best when it sticks to the subject. The movie succeeds inrecreating some of the romance of the Titanic itself. It begins with oldphotographs of the great ship and with a sneaky preview shot of the ship in itswatery grave. The plan to raise the ship involves the use of experimental Navysubmarines, and the sequences devoted to the search are tightly directed andeffective. Thepayoff scenes work, too: The moment when the Titanic breaks the surface of thewater is really very moving. And so is the shot of the ship being towed intoNew York Harbor. Some reviews of the film have criticized the special effects inthose shots, but I thought they were pretty good. Imean, of course they're using combinations of a smaller ship, scale models,tricks of perspective and special optical effects-but what'd you expect? TheTitanic? If you're not prepared to go halfway with a movie named "Raisethe Titanic" you are possibly in the wrong movie to begin with. SoI liked the stuff involving the ship. What I didn't like was the movie'scompulsion to lay on all sorts of "human interest," as if raising theTitanic weren't enough. Why don't they just once make a thriller that's aboutits premise from beginning to end? Why didn't they have the narrativediscipline to really go into the history of the Titanic, the odds on its stillbeing intact, the ways of salvaging it? Thenewspapers have been full of stories recently about an actual expedition tofind the Titanic, but this movie would rather blast us with a lot of hot airinvolving (as I was just lamenting) The Girl and The Russians. Advertisement Whatwould hack screenwriters do without them? The Girl is the lovelyAnne Archer,who plays a reporter for the Washington Star. She's the girlfriend of one ofthe guys behind the expedition. It turns out, of course, she is also the formergirlfriend of another guy on the expedition. This other guy's name ispriceless, even in the annals of pulp: "Dirk Pitt." Anyway,after The Russians discover the secret U.S. plans to raise the Titanic, theyleak the story to The Girl (for no apparent reason), and then she fights withher boyfriend. So what? TheGirl's completely unnecessary, as are all of her scenes, especially one inwhich she and her boyfriend go fishing all the way out in the country, just soa helicopter can immediately turn up with orders to take the guy back to town.The Russians are also unnecessary, and so is the basic premise of the plot. ThelateAlfred Hitchcockhad something he called "the MacGuffin," whichwas whatever it was in a plot that everybody was concerned about. The MacGuffinthis time is a rare mineral that the U.S. needs in order to power animpregnable laser defense system. The Russians want the mineral, too, and tryto capture the Titanic after it's raised. Allof this is, of course, completely ludicrous. And the scenes of the Russiansstanding around saying sinister things are terminally boring. Who needs thisweird mineral as an excuse to raise the Titanic? Wouldn't the salvage alone beworth it? Or why couldn't they just raise it in the spirit of Edmund Hillary,just because it is there?