The project must have been just the kind Sellers loved to workon. He plays two of the major roles in the movie, the ancient Fu Manchu and theunflappable Nayland Smith of Scotland Yard. He also turns up in a variety ofother disguises, as a Chinese chef, a foppish antique dealer and the young Fu.The roles required complex makeup jobs (as old Fu, he looks like one of MadameTussaud's bad dreams); then Sellers plays around with accents, props, all theschtick he can dream up. Unfortunately,the movie itself gives him little support. The screenplay doesn't seem to havebeen thought through on the level of small details, and details are what makemovies like this funny. The hazard in these enterprises is that the storysounds so funny (Fu Manchu needs secret youth elixir, stages raid on Britishcrown jewels) that the screenplay is never pushed to the next level of detail.By contrast, the Inspector Clouseau movies always felt meticulouslythought-out. Advertisement Theplot, in hindsight, is also just a little morbid, given Sellers' recent death.As Fu Manchu, he plays a 168-year-old man who starts fading fast after a clumsyassistant spills the vial containing his youth potion. Manchu has to reassemblethe secret ingredients, including a precious jewel, and so he stages aninternational crime wave. But his life force is ebbing low, and there arescenes where his assistants feed him jolts of electricity to keep him turningover. It is just a shade hard to laugh at some of these scenes so soon afterthe funeral. And,for that matter, they're not so funny anyway. The movie has some good moments(whatPeter Sellerscomedy could not have?), but the story never reallyinvolves us, the characters aren't all that interesting once you get beyond themakeup and the funny names and it's a bit disappointing that "The FiendishPlot of Dr. Fu Manchu" doesn't grab the obvious opportunity to satirizeall the oldBoris Karlofflateshow specials. Whatthe movie does have is a certain endearing, dogged professionalism. Nobody setsout to make a bad movie, but bad movies are made, and the people making themoften suspect the worst, even at the time. But they have to forge ahead. PeterSellers was in too many good comedies, I suspect, to be able to convincehimself that this was another one. But he was too much of a trouper to letdown. Maybe that could be his epitaph: When he was good, he was very goodindeed, and when he was bad, he was still trying.