"Caligula" is sickening, utterly worthless, shamefultrash. If it is not the worst film I have ever seen, that makes it all the moreshameful: People with talent allowed themselves to participate in thistravesty. Disgusted and unspeakably depressed, I walked out of the film aftertwo hours of its 170-minute length. That was on Saturday night, as a line ofhundreds of people stretched down Lincoln Ave., waiting to pay $7.50 apiece tobecome eyewitnesses to shame. Iwanted to tell them ... what did I want to tell them? What I'm telling you now.That this film is not only garbage on an artistic level, but that it is alsogarbage on the crude and base level where it no doubt hopes to find itsaudience. "Caligula" is not good art, It is not good cinema, and itis not good porn. Advertisement I'venever had anything against eroticism in movies. There are X-rated films I'veenjoyed, from the sensuous fantasies of "Emmanuelle" to the pop-comicabsurdities ofRuss Meyer. I assume that the crowds lining up for admission tothe Davis Theater were hoping for some sort of erotic experience; I doubt thatthey were spending $15 a couple for a lesson on the ancient history of Rome. AllI can say is that the makers of "Caligula" have long since lost touchwith any possible common erotic denominator, and that they suggest by thecontents of this film that they are jaded, perverse and cruel human beings. Inthe two hours of this film that I saw, there were no scenes of joy, naturalpleasure, or good sensual cheer. There was, instead, a nauseating excursioninto base and sad fantasies. Youhave heard that this is a violent film. But who could have suspected howviolent, and to what vile purpose, it really is? In this film, there are scenesdepicting a man whose urinary tract is closed, and who has gallons of winepoured down his throat. His bursting stomach is punctured with a sword. Thereis a scene in which a man is emasculated, and his genitals thrown to dogs, whoeagerly eat them on the screen. There are scenes of decapitation, evisceration,rape, bestiality, sadomasochism, necrophilia. Thesescenes -- indeed, the movie itself -- reflect a curiously distancedsensibility. Nobody in this film really seems to be there. Not the famousactors likeMalcolm McDowelland (very briefly)Peter O'TooleandJohn Gielgud,whose scenes have been augmented by additional porn shot later with otherpeople and inserted to spice things up. Not the director (who removed hiscredit from the film). Not the writer (what in the world can it mean that thismovie is "Adapted from an Original Screenplay byGore Vidal"?) Noteven the sound track. The actors never quite seem to be speaking their ownwords, which were so badly dubbed in later that the dialogue never seems to beemerging from the drama itself. Advertisement Thefilm even fails to involve itself in the action. "Caligula" has beenphotographed and directed with such clumsiness and inelegance that pieces ofaction do not seem to flow together, the plot is incomprehensible, the eventsare frequently framed as if the camera was not sure where it was, andeverything is shot in muddy, ugly, underlit dungeon tones. The music Is alsoexecrable. Sowhat are we left with? A movie, I am afraid, that may be invulnerable to areview like this one. There are no doubt people who believe that if this movieis as bad as I say it is, it must be worth seeing. People who simply cannotbelieve any film could be this vile. Some of those people were walking out ofthe Davis before I did Saturday night; others were sitting, depressed, in thelobby. That should not, I suppose, be surprising. Thehuman being is a most curious animal. often ready to indulge himself in hisbase Inclinations, but frequently reluctant to trust his better Instincts.Surely people know, going in, that "Caligula" is worthless. Surelythey know there are other movies in town that are infinitely better. Yet herethey are at "Caligula." It is very sad. Myfriendly recommendation is that they see "The Great Santini," tofreshen their minds and learn to laugh and care again in a movie. People learnfast. "This movie," said the lady in front of me at the drinkingfountain, "is the worst piece of shit I have ever seen."