"Somewhere in Time" wants us to share its sweepingromantic idealism, about a love so great that it spanned the decades and violatedthe sanctity of time itself. But we keep getting distracted by nagging doubts,like, isn't it a little futile to travel 68 years backward into time for aone-night stand? The movie surrounds its love story with such boring mumbojumbo about time travel that we finally just don't care. Itdidn't have to be that way. Last year's underrated and neglected movie"Time after Time," which had H.G. Wells and Jack the Ripper travelingforward into modern San Francisco, contained a love story that had a lot of slyfun with the notion of relationships between people of different eras."Somewhere in Time" has a lot of qualities, but slyness and fun arenot two of them. Advertisement Thismovie drips with solemnity. It enshrines its lovers in such excessive romanticnobility that Rachmaninoff's Rhapsody plays almost every time they're on thescreen. This is the kind of romance so sacred, so serious, so awesome, that youhave to lower your voice in the presence of it. Romances like those are boringeven to the monstrous egos usually involved in them. Butback to the movie. "Somewhere in Time" starsChristopher Reeveas aChicago playwright who visits the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island and sees aphotograph there of an actress who appeared at the hotel in 1912. He issmitten; no, he is obsessed. He researches the career of the actress, falls inlove with her, learns from a pseudoscientific psychology professor that timetravel is possible, and hypnotizes himself to travel back to 1912. Themovie never makes it clear whether the playwright actually does travel throughtime, or only hypnotizes himself into thinking he does. It doesn't matter. Oncehe's back in 1912, or thinks he is, he meets the young actress, who is playedby the preternaturally beautifulJane Seymour. "Is it ... you?" shebreathes. It is! It is! A little of this goes a long way, even withRachmaninoff. Especially with Rachmaninoff. Thereis, of course, a villain. He is the young actress's manager, played byChristopher Plummer. He has guided her career since she was 16, and now resentsthe intrusion of this stranger who has come from nowhere, is dressed oddly, andthreatens to steal his protégé. There are some intrigues, as the three of themsteal about the rooms and grounds of the magnificent Grand Hotel. But there arenever any scenes that really deal with the romance between Reeve and Seymour-and, incredibly, the movie avoids the opportunity to exploit in theirrelationship the fact that Reeve is from the future. All of the delightfulrevelations and paradoxes that could have resulted from Reeve revealing thatfact are simply ignored. Thisis, of course, Reeve's first movie since "Superman," and he is notparticularly convincing in it. He seems a little stolid, a little ungainly;he's so desperately earnest in his love for this actress that he always seemsto be squinting a little. The whole movie is so solemn, so worshipful towardits theme, that it's finally just silly.