"Why Would I Lie?" made me very angry while I waswatching it, because it is both a glorification of the arrogant stupidity ofits central character, and an insult to the intelligence of its audience. Not abad double play. It's the most offensive example in a long time of the IdiotPlot, which I define as follows: ld-i-otPlot (n.) A story for a film, book or play that depends for its continuity onthe stupidity of everyone in the story. Inthe case of "Why Would I Lie?" the only reason the mysteries in thefilm are not solved in the first 15 minutes is because nobody in this movieever does any of the obvious things that every member of the audience wouldnaturally do at once. That creates an enormous frustration on our part, aswe're enduring the film, because we know that all the characters have to do issay one or two simple words and their problems are over. We want to shout theanswers at the screen. Advertisement Themovie starsTreat Williamsas a spoiled, arrogant upper-class kid who liescompulsively about everything. He thinks it's cute. Because he won't sign apiece of paper, he and his sister and brothers can't share in the familyinheritance. Tough. He gets a job as a social worker, falls in love with alittle kid, unofficially and illegally adopts the kid, and then goes lookingfor the kid's mother - who should be out of prison by now. Sofar, the movie has been irritating because of the boring behavior of thecharacter, and boring because of the inept handling of an arbitrary plot. Butnow it starts making us angry, because it creates its suspense out of two playson names - and neither one should fool, any intelligent person for long. Tryingto track down the boy's mother, whose last name was "Kalinski," TreatWilliams goes to a woman's halfway house where she used to live. He is toldthat many of the women have changed their names after leaving prison. He meetsLisa Eichhorn, a counselor at the center. Her name is "Kay Lindsay.'' Isthat close enough to "Kalinski" for you? Anyway,she says she doesn't know this Kalinski, but she immediately sleeps with Williams,they become friends and lovers, and she meets the kid. The kid's name is Jeorge- with a "J," so the mother would know him if she ever found himagain. But Williams has decided to call him Hank instead of Jeorge. So thewoman doesn't realize it's her son. Except,except, except: Why doesn't "Kay Lindsay" ever try to find out whythis guy came looking for her under her real name of Kalinski? Why doesn't thekid ever say his real name isn't Hank? Why doesn't the woman ever ask the guywhere the kid came from-especially since the guy says it's not his kid? Whydoesn't' the guy tell the people at the center that he's looking for Kalinskibecause he has her kid? (He only says he has "something" for her.) Ifany one of these simple actions had taken place, the movie would be over. Butno. While everybody's pussyfooting around the obvious in this movie, itcomplicates things by the offensive addition of a totally off-the-wall subplotinvolving Kay Lindsay's protector, a woman who gave her a home when she got outof prison and is also, we suddenly discover, a lesbian with jealous designs onher. Advertisement Butwhat, exactly, is the relationship between Kay and the lesbian? Who knows.Although they've known each other for years, their relationship is undefined inan awkward and ugly argument they have. And then the movie ends in a nauseatingand truly disgusting scene where the little kid finally pipes up that his realname is Jeorge, the mother embraces him, and the movie's over! Without anyscenes showing the results of the revelation! Iknow this all sounds so stupid and offensive and unbelievably amateurish thatit's hard to believe, but . . . why would I lie? Distribution:Roger Ebert 76711,271