After the first five minutes of "Mother's Day" - afterthe shot of the blood spurting from the severed neck of the movie's firstvictim - I was ready to walk out. But no, that would have been too easy. Idetermined to stick this one out. I was part of a large crowd of Saturdayafternoon moviegoers, some of them no doubt taking a break from Christmasshopping, and I wanted to see how this cross-section of Americans would reactto the movie's images of vile and depraved sadism. Duringthe next 100 minutes or so, the "Mother's Day" audience witnessed aseries of violent events, held together by the flimsiest of stories. The plot:A demented old woman lives in a shack in the woods with her two cretinous sons.Their entertainment is to capture unwary campers and torture, rape and killthem for the delight of their mother. In between, they behave like pigs. Atypical dinner scene involves one of the sons shooting a can of pressurizedcheese whip down his throat. Advertisement Nearthe beginning of the film (but after the first beheading), three young women,former college classmates, go camping in the woods. They are imprisoned insidetheir sleeping bags and dragged back to the shack, where they are assaulted,raped, cut up, beaten and forced to watch unspeakable acts. The mother cackleswith glee. The actresses (?) scream relentlessly. Laterin the film, after one of the girls is dead, the two survivors come back forrevenge. (This sort of "eye for an eye" conclusion is apparently aghastly attempt at fairness on the put of the geeks who make these movies.) Thegirls get their revenge. In one sequence, one of the sons is stabbed throughthe throat with a car antenna and chopped in the crotch with a hatchet. Hisbrother has a can of Drano poured down his throat, and is hit over the headwith a television set. The audience can look in through the TV, screen as thevictim is electrocuted. Howdid the audience respond to this? Rather quietly, I thought. The cliché, ofcourse, would be that the audience reaction consisted of laughter, loud talkingback to the screen, and whoops of glee. Well, there were a few astonishedlaughs, especially during the Drano scene, but the audience was a good dealquieter than you might have expected. They seemed a little stunned. Maybe alittle sickened. Sofar there seems to be no end to the vogue for geek films. And there seems to beno limit to the inhuman imagery their makers are prepared to portray in them."Mother's Day" is at least rated "adults only - 18 and up"by its distributor. It has no official rating from the MPAA - but if it hadbeen submitted for a rating, it would no doubt have received an "R,"permitting persons under 17 into the theater. Thequestion, of course, of why anybody of any age would possibly want to see thisfilm remains without an answer.