Not since "Infra-Man" has a movie opened with adevelopment more ominous than the crisis facing Earth at the beginning of"Flash Gordon." But Earth scientists are playing it cool: A NASAspokesman denies that there's anything unusual about an unexpected totaleclipse of the sun. Unusual? That the moon is out of its orbit? Ha! It takes amad scientist like Dr. Hans Zarkov to realize that the Earth is under attack,and speed to the rescue in his private space ship-with Flash Gordon and DaleArden aboard as unwilling passengers. Advertisement Ifmemory serves, this is more or less the same beginning as in the original movieserialization of "Flash Gordon," back in 1936. Even if it's not, thisnewDino De Laurentiisproduction is true to the tacky pop origins of the FlashGordon comic strip and the serials starring Buster Crabbe. At a time when"Star Wars" and its spin-offs have inspired special effects men tobust a gut making their interplanetary adventures look real, "FlashGordon" is cheerfully willing to look as phony as it is. IDON'T mean that as a criticism. You can make a city float in the clouds andlook marginally realistic (as in "The Empire Strikes Back"), butthere's something sort of fun about the "Flash Gordon" city thatfloats in the clouds and looks like a large miniature model floating in fakeclouds. And as the spaceships lumber past on the screen, I really wouldn't haveminded if they'd left a tube of model airplane glue lying in the lowerleft-hand corner. "FlashGordon" is played for laughs, and wisely so. It is no more sophisticatedthan the comic strip it's based on, and that takes the curse off of materialthat was old before it was born. This is space opera, a genre invented by EdgarRice Burroughs and Hugo Gernsback and other men of unlimited imaginationharnessed to definitely limited skills. It's fun to see it done with energy andlove and without the pseudo-meaningful apparatus of the Force and TrekkiePower. Theplot is simple: The Emperor Ming (Max von Sydow), bored with life in theuniverse, decides to pick on Earth. After warming up with a few hurricanes andearthquakes, he sends the moon spinning down toward the planet. Meanwhile,Zarkov, Flash (Sam J. Jones, last seen as Bo Derek's husband in "10")and Dale (Melody Anderson) crash-land in Ming's imperial space city. There areintrigues afoot, but meanwhile Dale catches Ming's eye, he determines to marryher, and Flash finds himself fighting for his life with a gladiator. Advertisement MikeHodges, the British director hired by De Laurentiis to orchestrate this comicspace opera, is true to the visual tradition Of the, original serials: Everyoneis dressed in capes and ridiculous boots and headdresses, and stand, around onthe command decks of ornate space ships. There's an imperial court to applaudand boo at the appropriate times. Andthere's a cliff-hanging showdown when the Hawk Men, looking amazingly like thewinged angels in De Laurentiis' production as "Barbarella" (1968),engage the crew of a space ship in hand-to-hand battle (you know there'ssomething lacking with the Ming technology when the commander of the rocket shipshouts "Stand by to the repel invaders!"). Is all of this ridiculous?Of course. Is it fun? Yeah, sort of, it is.