Clint Eastwood's "Any Which Way You Can" is not a verygood movie, but it's hard not to feel a grudging affection for it. Where else,in the space of 115 minutes, can you find a country & western road picturewith two fights, a bald motorcycle gang, the Mafia, a love story, a pickuptruck, a tow truck, Fats Domino, a foul-mouthed octogenarian, an oversexedorangutan and a contest for the bare knuckle championship of the world? Themovie seems designed as a free-association exercise involving all of the aboveelements, in no particular order. That gives it a certain clarity of form. Itopens, for example, with a bare-knuckle fight between Eastwood and someone else(Who else? Doesn't matter). While Eastwood is slugging it out, his highlyintelligent orangutan, Clyde, is relieving himself in the front seat of a statepolice car. And somehow we know-never mind how, we just know-that one of thereoccurring themes of this movie is going to be Orangutan Crap In Squad Cars.We are correct. It's that kind of movie. Advertisement After the big fight, Eastwood returns to his home, which seems to be an Okie hovelsomewhere in a large Western state. He still lives with Ma, played by RuthGordon as a cross between Ma Kettle and Ma Barker. Clint and his partner,Orville Boggs, spend all day hard at work banging on things with wrenches. OccasionallyClyde amuses himself by ripping apart old Mercurys with his bare hands. Thenthe Mafia decides to set up a bare-knuckle fight between Eastwood and thedefending eastern champion, a guy named Jack Wilson. Itwas to my immense delight that I immediately recognized the actor playing JackWilson. He was William (Big Bill) Smith, who played a lot of motorcycle gangleaders in films of the late 1960s, and still looks as fearsome as ever. He andEastwood meet while out jogging one morning, and then he falls off a cliff andis rescued by Eastwood, after which he beats up a lot of guys who insultEastwood's girlfriend in a bar. All in a day's work. Thegirlfriend is played bySondra Locke, who was also in "Every Which Way ButLoose," the prequel to the present film. You gotta give Eastwood and Lockecredit. UnlikeBurt ReynoldsandSally Field, who spent the first half of"Smokey and the Bandit, Part Two" holding a deep, Interpersonalphilosophical argument about the issues raised by their relationship in"Smokey and the Bandit, Part One," Eastwood and Locke don't agonizeover their reunion. Two minutes after their reunion in a country & westernbar, Locke is being consoled by Eastwood's orangutan. Ten minutes later, they'restarting a riot at the YWCA. It's that kind of movie. Anyway,the Mafia kidnaps Sondra Locke in order to force Eastwood to fight. Then BigBill Smith and Eastwood wipe out the Mafia, but decide to fight anyway. It issome fight. It's one of those-brawls where every time somebody gets hit on thechin, it sounds like they're beating the hell out of a Naugahyde sofa with aPing-Pong paddle. Ifwe had any slight lingering doubts that this was a Clint Eastwood movie, theyare dispelled when Eastwood breaks his right arm during the fight, gets up offthe floor and growls, "It's not over yet." Advertisement Inaddition to the orangutan crap in the squad cars, the other reoccurring motifof "Any Which Way" is, I suppose, the music. The original movie waslaunched to an enormous box office success by the release of the hit countrysingle, "Every Which Way But Loose," by Eddie Rabbit. Everybodybut Mr. Rabbit turns up in this one: There are songs and/or appearances by GlenCampbell,Ray Charles, Fats Domino, Jim Stafford (who sings "CowPatti"), Johnny Duncan, Gene Watson, Sondra Locke, Clint Eastwood("Beers to You"), David Frizzell ("You're the Reason God MadeOklahoma") and Cliff Crofford ("The Orangutan Hall of Fame"). Ofthe whole crowd, Fats Domino is the most inexplicable. What in the world isFats Domino doing in a Clint Eastwood C & W action movie, wearing a cowboyhat and singing "Whiskey Heaven"? I guess it's just that kind ofmovie. Distribution:Roger Ebert 76711,271