This is strange. I have no interest in running and am not apartisan in the British class system. Then why should I have been so deeplymoved by “Chariots of Fire,” a British film that has running and class as itssubjects? I've toyed with that question since I first saw this remarkable filmin May 1981 at the Cannes Film Festival, and I believe the answer is rathersimple: Like many great films, “Chariots of Fire” takes its nominal subjects asoccasions for much larger statements about human nature. Advertisement This is a movie that has a great many running scenes. It is alsoa movie about British class distinctions in the years after World War I, yearsin which the establishment was trying to piece itself back together after thecarnage in France. It is about two outsiders, a Scot who is the son ofmissionaries in China, and a Jew whose father is an immigrant from Lithuania.And it is about how both of them use running as a means of asserting theirdignity. But it is about more than them, and a lot of this film's greatness ishard to put into words. “Chariots of Fire” creates deep feelings among manymembers of its audiences, and it does that not so much with its story or evenits characters as with particular moments that are very sharply seen and heard. Seen,in photography that pays grave attention to the precise look of a human faceduring stress, pain, defeat, victory, and joy. Heard, in one of the mostremarkable sound tracks of any film in a long time, with music by the Greekcomposer Vangelis Papathanassiou. His compositions for “Chariots of Fire” areas evocative, and as suited to the material, as the different but alsoperfectly matched scores of such films as "The Third Man" and"Zorba the Greek." The music establishes the tone for the movie,which is one of nostalgia for a time when two young and naturally giftedBritish athletes ran fast enough to bring home medals from the 1924 ParisOlympics. The nostalgia is an important aspect of the film, which opens with a 1979memorial service for one of the men, Harold Abrahams, and then flashes back sixtyyears to his first day at Cambridge University. We are soon introduced to thefilm's other central character, the Scotsman Eric Liddell. The film'sunderlying point of view is a poignant one: These men were once young and fastand strong, and they won glory on the sports field, but now they are dead andwe see them as figures from long ago. Advertisement The film is unabashedly and patriotically British in its regardfor these two characters, but it also contains sharp jabs at the British classsystem, which made the Jewish Abrahams feel like an outsider who couldsometimes feel the lack of sincerity in a handshake, and placed the ProtestantLiddell in the position of having to explain to the peeved Prince of Wales whyhe could not, in conscience, run on the Sabbath. Both men are essentiallyproving themselves, their worth, their beliefs, on the track. But “Chariots ofFire” takes an unexpected approach to many of its running scenes. It does not,until near the film's end, stage them as contests to wring cheers from theaudience. Instead, it sees them as efforts, as endeavors by individual runners-- it tries to capture the exhilaration of running as a celebration of thespirit. Twoof the best moments in the movie: A moment in which Liddell defeats Abrahams,who agonizingly replays the defeat over and over in his memory. And a moment inwhich Abrahams' old Italian-Arabic track coach, banned from the Olympicstadium, learns who won his man's race. First he bangs his fist through hisstraw boater, then he sits on his bed and whispers, "My son!" All ofthe contributions to the film are distinguished. NeitherBen Cross, asAbrahams, nor Ian Charleson, as Liddell, are accomplished runners but they areaccomplished actors, and they act the running scenes convincingly.Ian Holm, asAbrahams' coach, quietly dominates every scene he is in. There are perfectlyobserved cameos byJohn GielgudandLindsay Anderson, as masters of Cambridgecolleges, and by David Yelland, as a foppish, foolish young Prince of Wales.These parts and others make up a greater whole. “Chariotsof Fire” is one of the best films of recent years, a memory of a time when menstill believed you could win a race if only you wanted to badly enough.