Selections from Caveman Basic, a word guide that was handed topatrons as they entered the theater to see Caveman: AIEE: Help! Save me! ALOONDA:Affection, desire. BO-BO:Man, friend, human. CA-CA:Excrement. FECH:Bad, no good, ugly GWEE:To go. HARAKA:Fire, burning thing. KUDA:Come here, where are we now this way right here. MA:Me, myself MACHA:Wild animal, beast, non-human. NYA:No, none, not happening, negative. OOL:Food. POOKA:Hurt, injured, messed up no good. WHOP:Stop whoa, hold it! Advertisement ZUG-ZUG:Sexual intercourse. Selectionsfrom my thoughts after having seen the film: Aieee!This movie is fech! We can hardly wait for the end so we can gwee. We kill timein between by eating popcorn and other ool. The movie is ca-ca. Thereare a few good moments, mostly involving the giant prehistoric dinosaurs andother machas, especially during zug-zug. But the movie is mostly fech, nya, andpooka, if you ask me. Andyet "Caveman" is fairly successful, maybe because there's a realhunger for an "Airplane!"-type satirical spoof. It gets good laughswith scenes like the one where John Matuszak throws himself over a cliff along witha rock. Butit has a basic problem, which is that there is no popular original material forit to satirize. There has never been a really successful movie set inprehistoric times, although God knows they've tried, with movies like"When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth" and "One Million YearsB.C." Those movies were self-satirizing; by the end, they were making funof the way they started out. "Caveman"seems more in the tradition of Alley Oop, crossed with Mel Brooks's TwoThousand Year Old Man. But the only artistic cross-reference it can manage isfrom the opening scene of Stanley Kubrick's "2000." In"Caveman", the cavemen are shown in the process of discovering modernfire, cooking, and music. During their epochal discoveries, the sound trackteases us by quoting from Strauss's "Thus Spake Zarathustra," butnever quite getting it right. Why bother to rewrite Strauss? He's out ofcopyright. Themovie has an interesting cast -- or would have an interesting cast, if theactors were given interesting things to do.Ringo Starrplays the leader of awandering tribe, and onetime Oakland Raider Matuszak is the leader of thestronger tribe and the boyfriend of Barbara Bach, who wears push-up skunkskins. Starr feels great aloonda for Bach, and whenever he sees her, zug-zug isnot far from his mind. But Matuszak is the kind of guy who can break adinosaur's drumstick in two, and so Starr has to outsmart the big guy. Thus,intelligence is born. Advertisement It'sa little depressing to realize how much time and money went into "Caveman",an expensive production shot on location in Mexico. This very same materialcould have been filmed quickly and cheaply on a sound stage, since theproduction values are obviously not going to make us laugh any louder. And withthe added flexibility and the lower stakes, maybe a little spontaneity couldhave crept into the film. As it stands, the filmmakers seem to learn comedy asslowly as the cavemen learn to whop before they step in the haraka.