“The Cannonball Run” is an abdication of artistic responsibilityat the lowest possible level of ambition. In other words, they didn't even careenough to make a good lousy movie. “Cannonball” was probably always intended asjunk, as an easy exploitation picture. But it's possible to bring some sense ofstyle and humor even to grade-zilch material. This movie doesn't even seem tobe trying.Burt Reynoldssleepwalks through a role he's played several times before, butnever so indifferently. He's a hotshot driver in a big, illegal cross-countryroad race; first one to California wins. That means Reynolds gets to drink alot of beer, talk like a good ol' boy, and get in the middle of a lot ofcrashes and other stunts. Advertisement The movie was directed byHal Needham, a onetimestuntman who graduated to directing with “Smokey And The Bandit” (1977), thefirst and still the best of the Burt Reynolds car-chase movies. After that,each Needham movie has been worse than the one preceding it. His downwardspiral has included “Hooper,” “The Villain,” and “Smoke And The Bandit II.”Movie buffs will note that three of Needham's four movies have starred BurtReynolds, one of the most important properties in Hollywood. Reynolds is sopopular he can make money in almost anything, a maxim that “Cannonball Run” putsto the extreme test. Reynolds and Needham are friends, and indeed the wholecast of “Cannonball” seems to consider the movie a reunion. The film ends withouttakes spoiled shots during which somebody breaks up or says the wrong lineor otherwise goofs. It's supposed to show us how much fun everybody had. Alas,the outtakes don't look much more goofy than the takes they intended to put inthe movie; “Cannonball” assembles a giant cast around an absolutely minimalamount of screenplay, and allows them to kill time expensively. There's notmuch plot and no suspense. The filmmakers' excuse, no doubt, is that they werereally making a comedy, not a road race picture. That would work if there wereany laughs in the movie. But just look at the cast. It's like a cattle call. It's like an Actor's Guildpicket line. It's like Hollywood Squares on Wheels. Some of the actors aretalented, some are not, but they look equally awful in this movie. At one timeor another during this unspeakable experience, you can share it with not onlyBurt Reynolds but alsoRoger Moore,Farrah Fawcett,Dom De Luise,Dean Martin(looking as if a big-a pizza pie hit him straight in the eye), Sammy Davis, Jr.(looking like a severe case of vitamin deficiency),Jack Elam,Adrienne Barbeau(whose role consists of unzipping her jump suit),Terry Bradshaw,Jackie Chan,Bert Convy, Jamie Farr,Peter Fonda(as an aging Hells Angel),Michael Hui,Bianca Jagger, Molly Picon, Jimmy "The Greek" Snyder, and Mel Tillis.This isn't a cast, it's the answer to a double acrostic. Advertisement