What we have here is a movie about a Good Ol' Girl, made withthe Good Ol' Boy formula. The Good Ol' Person gets in trouble with the law,hitches up with another drifter of the opposite sex, and hits the road forCalifornia. After a series of adventures involving weird people and tightscrapes, the two persons learn to trust each other and have more confidence inthemselves. The movie ends on a note of moral triumph: In this case, forexample, the heroes find the courage to keep on heading for California. Advertisement If I'm somewhat muted in my enthusiasm for “Back Roads,” it's because the movieis so relentlessly willing to follow the Road Movie formula. One of the mostpredictable things about movies such as this is that the filmmakers remainunder the delusion that this time, they can find an original approach bypopulating their formula screenplay with bizarre, eccentric, colorful characters.This approach might work, if they didn't always discover the same colorfulcharacters that a dozen other movies have already discovered. In “Back Roads,” forexample, we are expected to be newly astonished by a tough-talking Latinomadam, a hard-drinking fight promoter, a bullet-headed evil bruiser, and ahomesick sailor. The movie's two leads also are less than amazingly original:Sally Fieldplays a hooker with a heart of gold, andTommy Lee Jonesis acorrupt ex-prize-fighter with one good fight left in him. How could they take this material and make it really original? Maybe byrefusing to be seduced by the Screenwriter's stock Hollywood"originality" and probing more deeply into the real human lives ofthe characters. The people in “Back Roads” are so heavily laden with schtickthat they never have a chance to develop personalities. Take, for example, thehooker. Field plays the part with enormous appeal and gives a performance thatcan not be faulted. But the character she's been given to play is a completefiction. We are expected to believe the usual chiches about how she got to be ahooker: She was taken advantage of by a sailor; she had to give her little boyup for adoption; she weeps every time she sees the little tyke walking intoschool; she has to prostitute herself in order to eat. She meets another streetperson (Jones); he sleeps with her and doesn't pay her; they team up togetherand hitch to the coast. This is all out of the Damon Runyon school of romantic realism. Think how muchmore interesting this movie would have been if the screenplay had played toughand uncompromising with the characters. Let's face it: The Field character is alow-life street hooker who's over the hill. In real life, she would undoubtedlybe a drug addict or alcoholic. She'd hustle because she couldn't get her acttogether for two consecutive hours of straight work. She would not trustanybody and possibly would be so emotionally and physically crippled by herhabit that a trip to California would kill her. Instead, the movie's lovebirds hitchhike for days on end. They sleep in theopen, they get soaked in ditches, they rob cops and customers, and all the timewe're expected to believe that it is an act of growth and courage for them tokeep heading west. Actually, it's just another self-deceiving escape, and ifthe movie had been willing to deal honestly with the plight of its characters,it wouldn't need to be clutterted up with eccentrics and hearts of gold. Advertisement