Some movies seem to bring their own moods with them, and themood of “All Night Long” is dispirited mopery. Here's a movie with ahigh-energy cast and a promising comic plot, and the director seems to beaiming for the bittersweet. How can you possibly start out withGene Hackmanasthe manager of an all-night drugstore, andBarbra Streisandas a fireman's wifewho likes to swing, and wind up with a movie where everybody's sighing all thetime? Jean-Claude Tramont finds a way. He's the director of “All Night Long,” andmaybe he should bear the responsibility. I've been arguing for years thatBarbra Streisand would be one of the greatest comedians of all time if she'djust accept strong direction and not play it safe by controlling every detailof her films. Maybe I was wrong. Surely it wasn't Streisand's idea to play hercharacter as a quiet, vacant-minded nonentity. Here's one of the most powerfulpersonalities in movie history, and she doesn't have a single scene where shelets loose. She's almost intimidated by the clothes she wears. Advertisement Gene Hackman's character is also a disappointment. He plays an executive of thedrug chain, and he's demoted to the all-night managerial position because hethrew a chair through the boss's window. It's at this point (very early on)that the movie gets lost. It could have developed into a fascinating portraitof all-night society, but it doesn't. It assigns a few weirdos to march throughthe store and do their thing, but they don't feel real, they feel like actors.The story never approaches the rhythms of life. You know a movie's in troublewhen it makes a running gag out of how to pronounce the hero's name. Meanwhile, there's this would-be sex comedy trying to get started. Hackmandiscovers that his son is having an affair with a married cousin (Streisand).Hackman tries to break it up, but gets involved with Streisand himself.Hackman's wife (Diane Ladd) calls her lawyer. Streisand's husband (KevinDobson) tries to intimidate Hackman. This might have somehow been made into a farce,but the director keeps losing the pace. Scenes begin with the promise offireworks and end with the characters at a loss for words. You also know amovie's in trouble when it has the heroine ride a motor scooter just to makeher seem like more of a character. Here and there, in the midst of this mess, there are some funny lines.Streisand: "So you only planned one child?" Hackman: "Nobodyplans a kid like mine." But the movie never really gets going. It's gotall the ingredients, but it feels a million miles from life. Was it all shot ona sound stage? In some of the shots in his office at the drugstore, Hackmanstands in front of a one-way mirror looking into the store, and the store lookslike a painted backdrop. Even when he's in the store, it's all wrong. Therearen't any people there, except for the character actors who walk in and actcrazy. One low point: An athletic woman tries to stick up the store, throwsHackman and the security guard around, and is dumped into the frozen pizzas.This should generate some electricity, you'd think, but no: The direction turnsit into a scene that's first ugly, then pointless. Maybe I wasn't completely wrong when I suggested that Streisand would benefitfrom strong direction. She didn't get any here, and the result is a completewaste of time; Hackman's time, as well. These are two of the most talentedmovie actors we have. They don't make that many films. Neither one really worksin “All Night Long.” Life is short. They should get moving. Advertisement