It is hard to reconstruct these fragments from the memories ofchildhood but as nearly as I can remember, the Zorro craze came after the DavyCrockett craze and before Elvis. Kids made Z marks everywhere -- on walls,fences, blackboards, and with ballpoints on the shirts of the kids sitting infront of them -- and my personal notion is that Datsun sells half of theirZ-cars to guys harboring sublimated Zorro fantasies. Here'sthe curious thing. I remember a lot about Zorro. I even remember that he wasonce played by Clayton Moore, who got to keep wearing his Lone Ranger mask. ButI cannot remember if the Zorro movies were ever supposed to be funny. I assumethat the Zorros, played by Douglas Fairbanks, Tyrone Power, and John Carroll,were more or less serious, within the broad outlines of the adventure genre.But what about all the Zorro movies and TV shows that Guy Williams made forDisney? Were we laughing at him, or with him? Advertisement Iask because I am just as confused after seeing "Zorro, the GayBlade," which starsGeorge Hamiltonin a dual role as Don Diego Vega andhis twin brother, Bunny. (The brother was originally a Vega, too, but afterenlisting in the British Navy he changed his name to Bunny Wigglesworth.) Thismovie is, of course, intended as a comedy, and it has some funny moments. Butit's just not successful, and I think the reason is that Hamilton never for asecond plays Zorro as if he were really playing Zorro. We could laugh at theprevious movie Zorros because they were so serious about their ridiculous codesand vows and pledges of loyalty and chivalric passions. They were funny as longas they played it straight. But when a movie sets out a create a funny Zorro,that's bringing coals to Newcastle. By playing every scene for laughs, Hamiltonhas nothing to play against. "Zorro,the Gay Blade" was no doubt inspired by the enormous success of Hamilton'sspoof of a durable Hollywood character, when he played Dracula in "Love atFirst Bite" (1979). Hamilton demonstrated in that movie, and demonstratesagain in this one, that he is a gifted comic actor. He can have fun with hisimprobably handsome appearance, he can poke fun at his character's vanity, andhe can look convincing enough as Zorro (or Dracula) to remind us of thequintessential Hollywood leading men whose footsteps he is stalking. But... should Zorro be funny because of his puffed-up self-importance, or becausehis role in life is inescapably ridiculous any way you look at it? Should he befunny because of what he is (my theory), or what he does (this movie's theory)?A funnier comedy might have been made out of a more genuinely satiricalexamination of the Zorro character. Instead, this one provides Zorro with a gaybrother who's a screamingly limp-wristed stereotype, and then goes for jokesthat are disappointingly predictable. It also gives him a leading lady (LaurenHutton) who has all she can do to play her role at all, much less play itsatirically. And it never provides a comprehensive story to hold the jokestogether. Too bad. I think I remember now: We laughed more at the old Zorros,because they didn't know they were funny. Advertisement