“The Woman Next Door” opens as a simple story about twohouses. They are next door to one another. The story gets a great deal lesssimple after we meet the inhabitants of the houses. The house on the right islived in byGerard Depardieu, a big, friendly lunk of a guy who loves his wifeand kids. The house on the left is purchased by an air traffic controller, whomoves in with his new bride, played byFanny Ardant.The catch is that Depardieu and Ardant werelovers eight or nine years ago. It was, we gather, a tempestuous relationship.Depardieu learns secondhand that Ardant has described him as a "violentmanic depressive." Yet things look so calm on the suburban surface, as thetwo couples meet and exchange civilities.AdvertisementThe man and the woman make one crucial error,however, right at the outset. They do not tell their respective spouses abouttheir old love affair. If they had, the situation might immediately have beendefused into embarrassment, good manners, and all those other enemies ofpassion. But because they keep their past a secret, they bestow meaning on it.They tacitly agree that there is still a past, and that they do still share asecret. In no time at all, they're meeting in town for steamy afternoons in oneof those French hotels where the concierge has seen everything.This situation is a quintessential one forTruffaut, the French director who has successfully made more than 20 filmswithout yet portraying a healthy, mature relationship between a man and awoman. All of his lovers are doomed by the demons of their passion, and byunderlying streaks of violence (in his serious films) and frivolous inabilityto make a commitment (in his comedies).Stanley Kauffman, the critic for the NewRepublic, bluntly observed not long ago that Truffaut only has three subjects(1) men in love with being in love, (2) women who kill men and (3) children.There aren't many scenes with the kids in thisfilm. But the male and the female are certainly in love with love: They seemmore fascinated by the fact of their affair than by each other. And they'retragically out of sync. They cannot love each other simultaneously. Each oneapparently needs to be rejected by the other to fully arouse his or herpassion. (The movie has a happy ending, I guess, in that it finally ends in atie.)Truffaut is on record as one of the greatestadmirers of     Alfred Hitchcock    , and “The Woman Next Door” is a profoundlyHitchcockian film, in that its real subjects are guilt, passion and terribleconsequences of a sin that starts out small. (We can almost imagine SirAlfred's ghost reciting the lesson: "You can see what can happen to youwhen you are not good boys and girls.") The two lovers are criminals, ofcourse, adulterers, cheaters, liars, as practiced at concealing their emotionsas a veteran con man. And, as Alfred did, Truffaut does a brilliant job ofgiving us surface images that are almost starkly simple, while beneath thesurface there's a labyrinthine tangle of passions.That's what's best about the film. Truffautshows us one thing and implies another. Toward the end, his characters seem tobe doing exactly the opposite of what we guess they're really doing. The superblogic of the last scene is all the more effective because, gee, we didn't knowthat was how she felt É but, of course, we did.Advertisement