An intriguing film named “Wolfen,” which is not aboutwerewolves but is about the possibility that Indians and wolves can exchangesouls, has crept stealthily into several Chicago theaters. Despite the factthat it starsAlbert Finney, was directed byMichael Wadleigh(“Woodstock”),and is an uncommonly intelligent treatment of a theme that is usually justexploited, the movie arrived without much advance publicity. If the subjectinterests you, move fast, before “Wolfen” closes.The story begins with the mysterious killing ofa politician, his wife, and their chauffeur. There are lots of suspects andlots of motives, but the clues are puzzling: the bodies were slashed toribbons, but apparently not with blades of any known metal. Could the woundshave been caused by teeth?AdvertisementAlbert Finney, a cop with assorted psychologicalproblems, is put on the case, teamed up with another officer (     Diane Venora    ).They begin to gather a fact here, a hunch there. Could wolves have done thisdamage? Scientists discover wolf hairs on several of the dead bodies that beginto turn up. But wolves are supposed to be extinct in the East, and certainlywithin New York City.The movie intercuts the police investigationwith imaginative scenes shot from the wolves' point of view. These arefast-moving tracking shots; the camera swoops down streets at the eye-level ofa wolf, pausing, taking cover, following one track and then another. Wadleighsuggests a wolf's senses with special optical effects in which objects with ascent also seem to shimmer.The movie's narrative style is brooding. Finneycomes into contact with an assortment of eccentric people (scientists, cops,morgue attendants, pathologists), and the trail eventually leads to a group ofAmerican Indians employed as high-steel workers. There is a breathtakingconfrontation to top of a bridge. What do the Indians know about wolves? Is itpossible that they practice ancient rituals to turn into wolves? Or do theyjust share spiritual communion with them?“Wolfen” develops a strong, angry theme aboutecological and human waste. We learn that the wolves make their headquarters ina ruined section of the South Bronx that resembles a bombed-out wasteland.Their original victim, the politician, had just visited there for agroundbreaking ceremony, vowing to "renew" the area. In killing him,the wolves are merely exercising their territorial imperative.What is perhaps most interesting about “Wolfen” isthat the story remains plausibleÑgiven its basic assumptions, of course. Thisis not sci-fi, fantasy or violent escapism. It's a provoking speculation on theterms by which we share this earth with other creatures.This seriousness reportedly did not impress thereleasing studio,     United Artists    , which would have preferred a sleazyexploitation picture (and is releasing “Wolfen” as if it were one). That's ashame. Love, thought, care and craftsmanship have gone into this film, which isnow, so to speak, being thrown to the wolves.Advertisement