Rob runs a bookstore and lives in one of those houses wherethe bedrooms hang under the eaves; one false move and you dash your brains outonto the living room floor below. Lou is a prostitute who lives on the streets.They both once had a friend named Lisa, back in the late 1960s when they wereall part of the Australian protest movement. Now Lisa has been murdered, andLou, searching for a meaning in her life or death, runs into Rob again. Shethinks he's a trick. He thinks she's an interesting, complicated person whodeserves his attention. I think she's closer to the mark. AdvertisementThis is the setup for “Winter of our Dreams,” anAustralian film starring two popular Australian new wave actors,     Judy Davis    (of“My Brilliant Career”) and     Bryan Brown    (of “Breaker Morant” and TV's "ATown Like Alice"). Davis brought a kind of wiry, feisty intelligence to “MyBrilliant career,” playing an Australian farm woman who rather felt she woulddo things her own way. She's wonderful this time, in a completely differentrole as an insecure, distrustful, skinny street waif. It's Brown who is thetrouble. Maybe it's the performance, maybe it's the character, or maybe it'sBrown, but I've rarely seen a more closed-off person on the screen. When thestory calls for him to reach out to Davis, we feel he's holding his nose.Sometimes there are movies where the leading actors cannot stand one another(     Ken Wahl    said he was only able to kiss     Bette Midler    in “Jinxed!” by thinkingof his dog), and maybe Brown just couldn't express the feelings that were inthe script. But I was never really convinced that he cared for Davis.That's less of a handicap later in the movie,however, when the Brown character is required to draw back from any involvementwith this pathetic street kid. The relationships in “Winter of our Dreams” arevery tangled--maybe too tangled. Brown's character has been married for sixyears to Gretel (     Cathy Downes    ), a handsome, smart woman who has a lover. Theyhave an open marriage, and there's no objection when Brown brings Davis homefor the night. Davis, taking this all in, can't understand it. Trying to learnhow to feel again, she can't understand why anyone would deliberatelytrivialize his feelings. The key passages in the film involve Brown's discoverythat Davis is a heroin junkie, and then her tortured period of drug withdrawal.They are both pretending to care for one another, and after Davis gets straightmaybe Brown will become her lover, while his wife disappears into the woodwork.That is not, however, even remotely in the cards, and there's a painful sceneduring a party at Brown's house, where Davis realizes that Brown is verymarried, open marriage or not.There seem to be two movements in “Winter of ourDreams.” One is Davis's movement away from the cynicism and despair ofprostitution, and back toward an ability to care for another person. The otheris Brown's initial concern for this girl, and then his retreat back into hisshell. Davis performs her movement magnificently. Brown didn't win my sympathyfor a moment. What just barely saves this film is the fact that we're notsupposed to like the Brown character. As for Davis, she's a wonder.Advertisement