“True Confessions” contains scenes that are just about asgood as scenes can be. Then why does the movie leave us disoriented anddisappointed, and why does the ending fail dismally? Perhaps because theattentions of the filmmakers were concentrated so fiercely on individualmoments that nobody ever stood back to ask what the story was about. It'sfrustrating to sit through a movie filled with clues and leads and motivations,only to discover at the end that the filmmakers can't be bothered withfinishing the story. AdvertisementThe film is about two brothers, one a priest,the other a cop. In a nice insight in casting,     Robert De Niro    plays the priestand     Robert Duvall    plays the cop; offhand, we'd expect it to be the other wayaround, but Duvall is just right, seedy and wall-faced, as the cop, and after ascene or two we begin to accept De Niro as a priest (although he seems tooyoung for a monsignor).The brothers live in Los Angeles in 1948. It isa Los Angeles more or less familiar from dozens of other movies, especially “     Chinatown    ”and the     Robert Mitchum    “     Farewell, My Lovely    ”--A small town, really, where thegrafters and the power brokers know each other (and in some cases are eachother). The movie's plot is complicated on the surface but simple underneath.It centers around a creep named Amsterdam (     Charles Durning    ), a constructiontycoon who got his start as a pimp. Both brothers have had dealings with theman. When Duvall was a vice cop, he helped handle the protection forAmsterdam's whorehouses. Now De Niro, the cardinal's right-hand man, overseesthe building projects of the Los Angeles archdiocese. And Amsterdam gets mostof the contracts for new schools and hospitals, even though his operation istainted with scandal.It's tainted with more than that after the deadbody of a young woman is found in a field, cut in two. Duvall's investigationleads to a madam who once took a rap for him, long ago, and to a sleazy LAporno filmmaker. Eventually, certain clues point all the way back to Amsterdam.Try to follow this closely: Amsterdam met the girl through a businessassociate, who met her as a hitchhiker. When he first gave her a lift in hiscar, De Niro was another passenger. The movie makes a great deal of the factthat the monsignor once shared a car with the "virgin tramp," as thenewspapers label the victim. But so what? One of the maddening things about “TrueConfessions” is that it's shot through with such paranoia that innocentcoincidences take on the same weight as evil conspiracies.The movie's emotional center is in the copcharacter. He's painted as a man who's not above taking a bribe. But at thesame time he has a moral code that's stiffer than his brother's. (Themonsignor, for example, isn't above rigging a church raffle so that a citycouncilman's daughter will win the new car.) What begins to eat away at Duvallis that this Amsterdam, honored as the Catholic Layman of the Year, is agrafter and former pimp. Did he also murder the girl? Duvall frankly doesn'tcare: The guy is such slime he should be arrested for the crime just on generalprinciples.Advertisement“True Confessions” spends a lot of effort inlaying the groundwork for its complex plot, but then it refuses to ever settlethings. Instead, there are inane prologues and epilogues showing the twobrothers years later, their hair gray, as they sigh philosophically overimpending death and shake their heads at the irony and tragedy of itall--whatever it all was.Since this isn't a thriller, we are invited, Iguess, to take it as a cynical meditation on the corruptibility of man. JoanDidion and     John Gregory Dunne    , who based the screenplay on his novel, see thesocial institutions in their story as just hiding places for hypocrites andweary, defeated men. But they never follow through on their insights. The moviehas, for example, a major subplot involving an old priest (     Burgess Meredith    )who is being put out to pasture. The priest is evidently a symbol of something,especially since the young De Niro gets the dirty job of firing him. But themovie never comes to terms with this story; it just leaves it sitting there.At the end of “True Confessions,” we're justsitting there, too. We have been introduced to clearly drawn and well-actedcharacters, we've entered a period in time that is carefully reconstructed,we've seen moments between men and women that are wonderfully well-observed.But we haven't seen a film that cares to be about anything in particular, tostate its case or draw its lines, or be much more than a skilled exercise instyle.