First reactions while viewing “Time Bandits”: It's amazinglywell-produced. The historic locations are jammed with character and detail.This is the only live-action movie I've seen that literally looks like pagesout of Heavy Metal magazine, with kings and swordsmen and wide-eyed little boysand fearsome beasts. But the movie's repetitive, monotonous in the midst of allthis activity. Basically, it's just a kid and six dwarfs racing breathlesslythrough one set piece after another, shouting at one another. I walked out ofthe screening in an unsettled state of mind. When the lights go up, I'm usuallyfairly certain whether or not I've seen a good movie. But my reaction to “TimeBandits” was ambiguous. I had great admiration for what was physically placedon the screen; this movie is worth seeing just to watch. But I was disappointedby the breathless way the dramatic scenes were handled and by a breakneck pacethat undermined the most important element of comedy, which is timing. Advertisement“Time Bandits” is the expensive fantasy by TerryGilliam, one of the resident geniuses of Monty Python's Flying Circus. It isnot a Monty Python film. It begins with a little boy who goes up to bed onenight and is astonished, as we all would be, when a horseman gallops throughhis bedroom wall and he is in the middle of a pitched battle. Before long, thelittle kid has joined up with a band of six intrepid dwarfs, and they'veembarked on an odyssey through history. The dwarfs, it appears, have gainedpossession of a map that gives the location of several holes in time--holesthey can pop through in order to drop in on the adventures of Robin Hood,Napoleon, and King Agamemnon, and to sail on the Titanic's maiden voyage.As a plot gimmick, this sets up “Time Bandits” fora series of comic set pieces as in Mel Brooks's “     History of the World -- Part 1    .”But “Time Bandits” isn't revue-style comedy. It's more of a whimsical,fantastic excursion through all those times and places, and all of its eventsare seen through the wondering eyes of a child. That's where the superb artdirection comes in--inspired work by production designer Milly Burns andcostume designer Jim Acheson. I've rarely, if ever, seen a live-action moviethat looks more like an artist's conception. And yet, admiring all of thesegood things (and I might also mention several of the performances), Inevertheless left the screening with muted enthusiasm. The movie was somehowall on the same breathless, nonstop emotional level, like an overlong KeystoneKops chase. It didn't pause to savor its delights, except right near the end,when Sir     Ralph Richardson    lingered lovingly over a walk-on as the SupremeBeing. I had to sort things out. And I was helped enormously in that process bythe review of “Time Bandits” by Stanley Kauffmann in The New Republic. Hedescribes the film, unblinkingly, as a "children's movie." Ofcourse.There have been so many elaborate big-budgetfantasies in recent years, from “Raiders” to “     Superman    ” to “Clash of theTitans,” that we've come to assume that elaborate costume fantasies are aimedat the average eighteen-year-old filmgoer who is trying to recapture hisadolescence. These movies have a level of (limited) sophistication andwickedness that is missing in “Time Bandits.” But perhaps “Time Bandits” doeswork best as just simply a movie for kids. I ran it through my mind that way,wondering how a kid would respond to the costumes, the panoply, the explosions,the horses and heroic figures, and, of course, the breathless, nonstop pacing.And I decided that a kid would like it just fine. I'm not sure that's whatGilliam had in mind, but it allows me to recommend the movie--withreservations, but also with admiration.Advertisement