“This Is Elvis” is the extraordinary record of a man whosimultaneously became a great star and was destroyed by alcohol and drugaddiction. What is most striking about its documentary footage is that we canalmost always see both things happening at once. There is hardly a time whenElvis doesn't appear to be under the influence of mind-altering chemicals, andnever a time, not even when he is only weeks from death, when he doesn'tpossess his special charisma. The movie's lesson is brutal, sad, andinescapable:Elvis Presleywas a man who gave joy to a great many people butfelt very little of his own, because he became addicted and stayed addicteduntil the day it killed him. AdvertisementThis movie does not, however, intend to be adocumentary about Presley's drug usage. It just turns out that way, becausePresley's life turned out that way. The film is a re-creation of his life andimage, and uses documentary footage from a wide variety of sources, includingPresley's own professionally made home movies. Not all the footage is evenreally of Presley. Some early childhood scenes are fiction, with a young actorplaying Elvis. They don't work, but they're soon over. A few other scenes arealso faked, including one shot following Presley into his home on the night hedied, and another showing him rushing to his mother's sickbed (the double is anElvis imitator named Johnny Harra). But the faked footage adds up to only about10 percent of the movie, and is helpful in maintaining continuity.The rest of the film's footage is extraordinary,and about half of it has never been seen anywhere. This film isn't just acompilation of old Elvis documentaries. The filmmakers got permission fromPresley's manager, Colonel Tom Parker, to use Presley's own private filmarchives and to shoot inside Graceland, his mansion. They include footage thatwas not even suspected to exist, including scenes from a birthday party Elvishad in Germany when he was still in the Army (we see a very young Priscilla atthe party), scenes of Elvis's parents moving into Graceland, scenes with Elvisclowning around with buddies, and shots taken inside his limousine very nearthe end, when he was drunk and drugged and obviously very ill. There are alsosequences during which we frankly wonder if he will be able to make it onto thestage.The documentary also includes some of Presley'skey television appearances, including his first guest appearances on the old"Dorsey Brothers Bandstand" and the "Ed Sullivan Show"(with Ed assuring America that Elvis was "a real decent, fine boy, Elvis,you're thoroughly all right"). There is newsreel footage of Elvis gettingout of the Army (and, significantly, observing "it was so cold some nightswe had to take bennies to stay awake"). There is an old kinescope, longthought to be lost, of a TV special hosted by     Frank Sinatra    to welcome Elvisback to civilian life (and in his duet with Sinatra, Presley is confused andapparently under the influence of tranquilizers).AdvertisementThe young Elvis in this movie is an entertainerof incredible energy and charisma. The charisma stays, but somewhere along theway we notice a change in his behavior, a draining away of cheerfulness, adreadful secret scourge. And in the film's final scenes, Presley is shockinglyill: He's bloated, his skin is splotchy, he's shaking and dripping with sweat,and, in one very painful sequence shot during a concert, he cannot remember thewords to his songs. But he pushes through anyway, and his final renditions of"My Way" and "Are You Lonesome Tonight?" are beautiful andabsolutely heartbreaking. He may have lost his mind, but he never lost hisvoice or his heart.Elvis Presley should, of course, still be alive.The film interviews his former bodyguards about his drinking and drug usage,and they argue convincingly that they could not stop him from doing what he wasdetermined to do. But an addict, of course, has only two choices, no matter howhe might deceive himself that he has many. He can either continue to use, or hecan ask for help.The irony in Presley's case is that his owndoctor was apparently the source of most of his drugs. Could Elvis havestopped? Sure. Would he have been alive today? Probably. But he was never ableto admit his addiction and find the will to seek help. And he was surrounded byfoot-kissers and yes-men. This movie shows the disintegration and death of atalented man who backed himself into a corner. He did it his way.