Michael Mann's "Thief" is a film of style, substance,and violently felt emotion, all wrapped up in one of the most intelligentthrillers I've seen. It's one of those films where you feel the authority rightaway: This movie knows its characters, knows its story, and knows exactly howit wants to tell us about them. At a time when thrillers have been devalued bythe routine repetition of the same dumb chases, sex scenes, and gunfights,"Thief" is completely out of the ordinary. Themovie starsJames Caanas a man who says he was "raised by the state"and spent eleven years in prison. As the movie opens, he's been free fouryears, and lives in Chicago. He is a highly skilled professional thief -- atrade he learned behind bars from Okla (Willie Nelson), a master thief. Thefilm's opening sequence establishes Caan's expertise as he cracks a safe with aportable drill. Caan sees himself as a completely independent loner. But we seehim differently, as a lonely, unloved kid who is hiding out inside an adultbody. He's a loner who desperately needs to belong to somebody. He trusts hispartner (James Belushi), but that's not enough. He decides, on an almostabstract intellectual level, to fall in love with a cashier (Tuesday Weld), andin one of the movie's best scenes he tells this woman, who is essentially astranger, all about his life in prison and his plans for the future. She takeshis hand and accepts him. Advertisement Butthere is another person who comes into his life: Leo, the master criminal, thefence who sets up heists and hires people to pull them. Leo, in a wonderfullycomplex performance by the sad-facedRobert Prosky, knows how to enlist Caan:"Let me be your father," he says. "I'll take care ofeverything." He does. He even supplies Caan and Weld with an illegallyobtained baby boy when they're turned down at the adoption agency. But once thethief goes with Leo, his life gets complicated. The cops seem to be on hiscase. His phone is bugged. Everybody knows his business. The movie leads up toone final caper, a $4 million diamond heist in Los Angeles, and then it ends ina series of double crosses and a rain of violence. Thismovie works so well for several reasons. One is that "Thief" is ableto convince us that it knows its subject, knows about the methods and criminalpersonalities of its characters. Another is that it's well cast: Everyimportant performance in this movie successfully creates a plausible person,instead of the stock-company supporting characters we might have expected. Andthe film moves at a taut pace, creating tension and anxiety through veryeffective photography and a wound-up, pulsing score byTangerine Dream. If"Thief" has a weak point, it is probably in the handling of theWillie Nelson character. Nelson is set up well: He became Caan's father-figurein prison, Caan loves him more than anybody, and when he goes to visit him inprison they have a conversation that is subtly written to lead by an indirectroute to Nelson's understated revelation that he is dying and does not want todie behind bars. This scene is so strong that it sets us up for big things: Weexpect Willie to get out, get involved in the plot, and be instrumental in theclimax. That doesn't happen. There is a very nice courtroom scene, during whichyou'll have to pay close attention to catch on to the subverbal and illegalconversation conducted between the judge and the lawyer. But then the Nelsoncharacter quickly disappears from the movie, and we're surprised and a littledisappointed. Willie has played the character so well that we wanted more. But,then, I suppose it is a good thing when a movie creates characters we feel thatstrongly about, and "Thief" is populated with them. It's a thrillerwith plausible people in it. How rare. Advertisement