“Tarzan, The Ape Man” is “The Blue Lagoon” with elephants. Ofcourse it's completely ridiculous, but at the same time it has a certaindisarming charm. Sure, it's easy to groan at the secondhand "plot." It'seasy to laugh at the clichés and mourn the demotion of Tarzan, who started outin the movies as king of the jungle and now gets fourth billing behind aschoolgirl, an anthropologist, and a wimp. And yet when Tarzan beats his chestand screams and swings to the rescue on a vine, there is something primal happeningon the screen. And when Jane and three loyal chimpanzees tenderly bathe thebody of the unconscious ape-man, we're getting very close to the reasons why wewatch movies, and why there will always be a few movies to reawaken the childwithin us. AdvertisementThis     Bo Derek    version of the "     Tarzan    "legend is allegedly a remake of the MGM version of 1932, starring JohnnieWeissmuller and     Maureen O'Sullivan    . Not in that version or in any of theothers, however, did Hollywood honestly address the central mystery of the Tarzanstory, which is--what, exactly, was the intimate relationship between Tarzanand Jane? Were they lovers? Friends? Neighbors? Business partners? I alwayspresumed they made love in order to produce Boy, but no: reader Jennifer Wiseinforms me Tarzan found Boy in the wreckage of a plane in “Tarzan Finds A Son!”(1939). No wonder I always thought there was something just a little peculiarabout the behavior of Weissmuller,     Lex Barker    , Gordon Scott, and other movieTarzans. There they were, all alone in the jungle with the beautiful Jane, andwhat did they do? Swing around on vines and talk to the animals. If I'd wanted “DoctorDolittle,” I would have seen “Doctor Dolittle.”This 1981 version is nothing if not willing tosatisfy our curiosity about sex life in the rain forest. Bo Derek (who starsand produced) and her husband John (who directed and photographed) are franklyinterested only in the relationship between Tarzan and Jane. The whole movie isa setup for several steamy scenes of confrontation between the savage, muscularjungle man and the petite young girl with eyes as wide as her shoulders. WhenTarzan and Jane first meet, the movie all but abandons its plot in favor offoreplay. This is not a movie to waste time on ivory-smuggling, Nazis, cities ofgold, ant-men, slave girls, lost safaris, or any of the countless other plotdevices     Edgar Rice Burroughs    used as substitutes for interpersonalrelationships. It gets right down to business.The movie opens with a vow by Bo Derek'sscientist father (     Richard Harris    ) to lead an expedition to plunder the jungleof its secrets. His real mission: To capture the legendary ape-man Tarzan andbring him back to his club--stuffed and mounted, if possible. Harris takes Boalong on his expedition, which also includes     John Phillip Law    in the role ofthe wimp assistant. Law has hardly anything to say, and is always the guy who'slooking the other way when Tarzan kidnaps Jane. After a series of routine shotsof the jungle march, Tarzan does meet Jane and finds himself powerfullyattracted to her. Harris is of course insane with jealousy: "Do you knowwhat he really wants?" he asks Jane. She hopes so.AdvertisementTarzan kidnaps Jane, and then the movie boringlyintercuts the jealous father searching for the curious girl. Harris's role inthis movie is as hapless as Jason Robards's role in “The Lone Ranger.” Nobodycares about him, his dialogue is overwrought and underwritten, and every timeTarzan and Jane are poised to jump into the bullrushes, the movie cuts back toHarris, slogging through the jungle and cursing the ape-man.The story line was ridiculous to begin with, butit goes berserk by the time of the movie's incomprehensible climax in a villageof mud worshippers. They capture Derek, smear her with paint, and prepare herfor some sort of unspeakable sacrifice before Tarzan gallops to the rescue witha herd of elephants. Those friendly elephants are, of course, part of theTarzan legend. Tarzan speaks Elephant, and there's always that great momentwhen he needs help, and the elephants hear his screams and perk up their ears.I've always thought it would be dangerous to ask Tarzan for help unless youreally wanted it. Say you had a small problem like a missing gourd or a stolenspear, and Tarzan arrived at your village with a herd of elephants to fixthings. You'd get your gourd back, maybe, but you'd be cleaning up for weeks.But never mind. This movie's scenes between BoDerek, as Jane, and Miles O'Keeffe, as a Tarzan who never speaks a word, showthem as complete sexual innocents, fascinated by the wonderment of each other'sbodies. Jane's expression as she looks at the unconscious Tarzan is entrancing.Her unabashed curiosity about him is sexier than any number of steamy sexscenes would have been. Although some of Bo Derek's nude scenes have reportedlybeen cut from the movie at the insistence of the spoilsport Edgar RiceBurroughs estate, the remaining nude footage is remarkably free of prurience.The Tarzan-Jane scenes strike a blow for noble savages, for innocent lust, for animalmagnetism, and, indeed, for soft-core porn, which is ever so much sexier thanthe hard-core variety. If you do not agree with me, you will probably thinkBo's banana scene is ridiculous. I prefer to think it was inevitable.