“Stripes” is an anarchic slob movie, a celebration of allthat is irreverent, reckless, foolhardy, undisciplined, and occasionallyscatological. It's a lot of fun. It comes from some of the same people involvedin “National Lampoon’s Animal House,” and could have been titled NationalLampoon's Animal Army with little loss of accuracy. As a comedy about a coupleof misfits who find themselves in the U.S. Army's basic training program, itobviously resembles Goldie Hawn's “Private Benjamin.” But it doesn't duplicatethat wonderful movie; they could play on the same double feature. “Stripes” hasthe added advantage of being a whole movie about the Army, rather than half amovie (“Private Benjamin” got sidetracked with Hawn's love affair). AdvertisementThe movie is not only a triumph for its stars(     Bill Murray    and     Harold Ramis    ) and its director (     Ivan Reitman    ), but a sort ofvindication. To explain: Reitman directed, and Murray starred in, the enormouslysuccessful “Meatballs,” which was an entertaining enough comedy but awfullyragged. No wonder. It was shot on a shoestring with Canadian tax-shelter money.What Murray and Reitman prove this time is that, given a decent budget, theycan do superior work--certainly superior to “Meatballs,” for starters. ForHarold Ramis, who plays Murray's grave-eyed, flat-voiced, terminally detachedpartner in “Stripes,” this is a chance, at last, to come out from behind thecamera. Ramis and Murray are both former Second City actors, but in Hollywood,Ramis has been typecast as a writer (“Animal House,” “Meatballs,” “     Caddyshack    ”),maybe because he sometimes looks too goofy for Hollywood's unimaginativetastes.In “Stripes,” Murray and Ramis make a wonderfulteam. Their big strength is restraint. Given the tendency of movies like thisto degenerate into undisciplined slapstick, they wisely choose to play theircharacters as understated, laid-back anarchists. Murray enlists in the Army ina what-the-hell mood after his girlfriend throws him out, and Ramis enlistsbecause one stupid gesture deserves another. They're older than the usual Armyrecruit, less easily impressed with gung-ho propaganda, and quietly amazed attheir drill instructor, Sergeant Hulka, who is played by     Warren Oates    withtough-as-nails insanity.The movie has especially good writing in severalscenes. My favorite comes near the beginning, during a session when recruits inthe new platoon get to know one another. One obviously psycho draftee, wholooks like     Robert De Niro    , quietly announces that if his fellow soldiers touchhim, touch his stuff, or interfere in any way with his person or his privacy,he will quite simply be forced to kill them. Sergeant Hulka replies:"Lighten up!" The movie's plot follows basic training, more or less,during its first hour. Then a romance enters. Murray and Ramis meet a couple ofcute young military policewomen (P.J. Soles and     Sean Young    ), and they happilyviolate every rule in the book. One funny scene: Murray and Soles sneak into thekitchen of the base commander's house and do unprecedented things with kitchenutensils.AdvertisementIt's an unwritten law of these movies that thelast half hour has to involve some kind of spectacular development. In “AnimalHouse,” it was the homecoming parade. In “Stripes,” the climax involves theArmy's latest secret weapon, which is a computerized, armored, nuclear weaponscarrier disguised as a recreational vehicle. Murray's platoon is assigned to goto Europe and test it. Murray, Ramis, and their girls decide to test it duringa weekend holiday swing through the Alps. After they cross the Iron Curtain,all hell breaks loose.“Stripes” is a complete success on its intendedlevel--it's great, irreverent entertainment--but it was successful, too, as abreakthrough for Ramis, Reitman, and Murray, on their way to “     Ghostbusters    .”Comedy is one of the hardest film genres to work in. Nobody knows all itssecrets, not even     Woody Allen    and     Mel Brooks    . Here's a comedy from people whoknow some of the secrets most of the time.