“Southern Comfort” is a well-made film, but it suffers from acertain predictability. I suspect the predictability is part of the movie'spoint. The film is set in the Cajun country of Louisiana, in 1973, and itfollows the fortunes of a National Guard unit that gets lost in the bayous andstumbles into a metaphor for America's involvement in Vietnam.The movie's approach is direct, and itssymbolism is all right there on the surface. From the moment we discover thatthe guardsmen are firing blanks in their rifles, we somehow know that themovie's going to be about their impotence in a land where they do not belong.And as the weekend soldiers are relentlessly hunted down and massacred by thelocal Cajuns (who are intimately familiar with the bayou), we think of theuselessness of American technology against the Viet Cong.AdvertisementThe guardsmen are clearly strangers in a strangeland, and they make fatal blunders right at the outset. They cut the nets of aCajun fisherman, they "borrow" three Cajun boats, and they mock theCajuns by firing blank machine-gun rounds at them. The Cajuns are not amused.By the film's end, guardsmen will have been shot dead, impaled, hung, drownedin quicksand, and attacked by savage dogs. And all the time they try to protectthemselves with a parody of military discipline, while they splash in circlesand rescue helicopters roar uselessly overhead. All this action is shown withgreat effect in “Southern Comfort.” The movie portrays the bayous as a world ofdangerous beauty. Greens and yellows and browns shimmer in the sunlight, andrare birds call to one another, and the Cajuns slip noiselessly behind treeswhile the guardsmen wander about making fools and targets of themselves. “SouthernComfort” is a film of drum-tight professionalism.It is also, unfortunately, so committed to itsallegorical vision that it never really comes alive as a story about people.That is the major weakness of its director, the talented young     Walter Hill    ,whose credits include “     The Warriors    ,” “     The Driver    ,” and “The Long Riders.” Heknows how to make a movie look great, and how to fill it with energy and style.But I suspect he is uncertain about the human dimensions of his characters. Andto cover that up, he makes them into larger-than-life stick figures, intosymbolic units who stand for everything except themselves. That tendency wascarried to its extreme in “The Driver,” a thriller in which the characters weregiven titles (the Driver, the Girl) rather than names. It was also Hill'sapproach in “The Warriors,” which translated New York gang warfare into theterms of Greek myth. His approach bothered me so much in “The Warriors” that Ioverlooked, I now believe, some of the real qualities of that film. It bothersme again in “Southern Comfort.”Who are these men? Of the Cajuns we learnnothing: They are invisible assassins. Of the guardsmen, however, we learnlittle more. One is swollen with authority. One intends to look out forhimself. One is weak, one is strong, and only the man played by     Keith Carradine    seems somewhat balanced and sane. Once we get the psychological labelsstraight, there are no further surprises. And once we understand the structureof the movie (guardsmen slog through bayous, get picked off one by one), theonly remaining question is whether any of them will finally survive.AdvertisementThat's the weakness of the storytelling. Thestrength of the movie is in its look, in its superb use of its locations, andin Hill's mastery of action sequences that could have been repetitive. Theaction is also good: The actors are given little scope to play with in theircharacters, but they do succeed in creating plausible weekend soldiers."We are the Guard!" they chant, and we believe them. And there is onemoment of inspired irony, when they are lost, cold, wet, hungry, and in mortalfear of their lives, and one guy asks, "Why don't we call in the NationalGuard?"