Step by step, this powerful movie takes a man from perfecthappiness into a personal hell. By the end of the film, the man is behavingirrationally, but here's the frightening thing: Because we've followed himevery step of the way, we have to admit he's behaving as we ourselves might, inthe same circumstances. The man in “Smash Palace” is Al Shaw, a Grand Prixdriver who leaves the racing circuit to take over his father's auto garage inNew Zealand. Played byBruno Lawrence, Al is a straight-talking, direct man whoenjoys working with his hands and takes a vast delight in the affections of hiswife and the love of his small daughter. It's a long way from the Grand Prix torepairing transmissions, but he's happy with his work and content to raise afamily in peace and quiet. His wife (Anna Jemison) is not so content. Shewanted him to leave the racing circuit before he was killed, but now, in thequiet backwaters of New Zealand, she is going quietly stir-crazy. She begins anaffair with a local cop (Keith Aberdeen) and finally tells her husband she'sleaving him. She's moving into town. AdvertisementHer decision starts him on a series of wrongmoves that may seem logical, one by one, but which eventually add up in theminds of others to a simple conclusion: He has lost his reason. He isjealous--of course. He holds a great fury against his wife and the cop. But,much more important, he misses his daughter. He wants custody. But because heacts in ways that are violent and frightening to his wife (and because herlover is on the police force, which must respond to the domestic emergencies hecreates), he works himself into a Catch-22: The more he does to take back hisdaughter, the closer he is to losing her. Finally, he kidnaps her. He takes herout into the woods where they live together for a time in isolation and happiness.It's an idyll that can't last. But “Smash Palace” doesn't lead up to theinevitable violent conclusion we might expect. All along the way, this filmprefers the unexpected turns of actual human behavior to the predictable plotdevelopments we might have expected, and, at the end, there's another turn, afascinating one.“Smash Palace” is one of 1982's best films, anexamination of much the same ground as “     Shoot the Moon    ,” but a better film,because it has the patience to explore the ways in which people can becomeconsumed by anger (“Shoot the Moon” contented itself with the outwardsymptoms). One of the reasons the movie works so well is the performances,which are all the stronger because they come from actors we have not seenbefore. Bruno Lawrence, bald-headed, wiry, tough, and surprisingly tender, isjust right as the man who loses his family. Anna Jemison has a difficultassignment as his wife: We're on his side, and yet we see the logic of hermoves. Keith Aberdeen is properly tentative as the other man; he feels love andlust, and yet is not unaware of the unhappiness he is causing. And there's aguy named Des Kelly who plays Tiny, an employee at the Smash Palace who lookson, and sees all, and wishes he knew what to do.The movie was directed by a young filmmakernamed     Roger Donaldson    , who, in a sense, is the New Zealand film industry. Hehas produced six features for New Zealand television, and his first featurefilm, “     Sleeping Dogs    ,” starred     Warren Oates    in a horrifying and plausiblefantasy about the American occupation of New Zealand. Now comes this film, soemotionally wise and observant that we learn from it why people sometimes makethe front pages with guns in their hands and try to explain that it's allbecause of love. Love, yes, but also the terrible frustration of trying tocontrol events, to make people do what you want them to do, what you"know" would make them happy--no matter what they think. The hero of “SmashPalace” does not act wisely, but if we are honest, it's hard to see where wemight have acted differently.Advertisement