“Sharky’s Machine” contains all of the ingredients of atough, violent, cynical big-city cop movie, but what makes it intriguing is theway theBurt Reynoldscharacter plays against those conventions. His name isSharky. As the movie opens, he's an undercover narcotics cop. He blows a bigcase and is demoted to the vice squad--which is a bawdy, brawling, vocal gangof misfits who act like a cross between "Hill Street Blues" and aJoseph Wambaughnightmare.Sharky is not happy in vice. He is, in fact, nothappy anywhere, not until a young woman named Dominoe enters his life. She is ahooker. She also seems to be involved with some snaky big-money characters, andso Sharky places her under twenty-four hour surveillance. That involves movingseveral cops, telescopes, cameras, and bugging devices into the high-riseopposite her apartment. The cops set up housekeeping and settle down for a longwait. And it's here that the movie begins to really involve us. Reynolds, asSharky, falls in love with the woman. It is a voyeuristic love, involvingspying and eavesdropping, and Sharky is not a voyeur--so it is particularlypainful for him to witness the woman's sexual involvement with others.AdvertisementThe central scenes of the movie, involving thecall girl's private life and the probing eyes of Sharky, could easily havebecome tawdry--could have disintegrated into a peep show. That doesn't happen,partly because Reynolds (who also directed the film) doesn't provide cheapdisplays of flesh, but also because the call girl is played by British actress     Rachel Ward    , who brings poignancy and restraint to the role. She plays a hookerwho's not a tramp. She has a husky voice and an astonishing body, but there'san innocence in her manner. Later, we discover that she has been in virtualbondage to her pimp since she was an infant. She knows no other life. This is asetup of sorts, a device in the plot to allow the female lead to be bothprostitute and victim, but it clarifies the relationship between Reynolds andWard. And when they fall in love, as they inevitably do, it provides someleftover innocence to be celebrated.Reynolds surrounds this central relationshipwith a lot of cops, known as Sharky's Machine. They are played by actors whohave played a lot of other cops in a lot of other movies--     Brian Keith    , CharlesDurning--and by     Bernie Casey    , who is playing his first cop but does it withspecial grace. There's a long scene in the film, reportedly improvised, inwhich Casey tells Reynolds what it felt like, the first time he was shot. Weare reminded that cops in the movies hardly ever talk about being shot.“Sharky’s Machine” has a lot of plot, most of itinspired by the original novel by     William Diehl    . Maybe it has too much plot fora movie that Reynolds has referred to as Dirty Harry Goes to Atlanta. But thisis an ambitious film; it's as if something inside Reynolds was chafing at theinsipid roles he was playing in one car-chase movie after another. He doesn'twalk through this movie, and he doesn't allow himself the cozy little touchesthat break the mood while they're letting the audience know how much fun Burtis having.AdvertisementThe result of his ambition and restraint is amovie much more interesting than most cop thrillers. “Sharky’s Machine” doeshave a lot of action, including an extended, exhausting, brutal shoot-out atthe end. But it also has the special qualities of the relationship betweenReynolds and Ward (more fully developed than the camaraderie between Reynoldsand     Catherine Deneuve    , as another hooker in another thriller, “     Hustle    ,” in1974). As a director, Reynolds allows himself a few excesses (one howler is thedramatic cut from a sex scene to the phallic glory of the Peachtree PlazaHotel). But he's put a lot of his ambition in this movie, and it reminds usthat there is a fine actor within the star of “     The Cannonball Run    .”