“Scanners” is a new horror film made with enough craft andskill that it could have been very good, if it could find a way to make us careabout it. I don't think it does. I never had the feeling during the film thatit mattered much who won or lost, who lived or died, just so long as thespecial effects occurred on time and the movie's look of elegant chill waspreserved.It was released at almost the same time as “AlteredStates,” another horror film that was being linked with “Scanners” in somereviews. I don't think they're comparable. I know “     Altered States    ” cost manymillions of dollars more than “Scanners,” but that's not the difference thatmatters; on the level of its technical credits, “Scanners” is a fully qualifiedthriller. What matters is that “Altered States” involved its characters inexperiences that we believed (for the length of the movie) were reallyhappening to them. Vicariously, they were happening to us, too. In “Scanners,”we're never involved. We're always watching. And so while “Altered States” throwsall logic out the window and still works as great entertainment, “Scanners” bogsdown in one of those plots where the big secret is revealed in the last reeland it turns out to be big only in the mind of the screenwriter.AdvertisementThis was the fourth film by     David Cronenberg    , aCanadian who gathered a cult following for such superior low-budget chillers as“     They Came from Within / Shivers    ” and “     The Brood    .” On the basis of “Scanners,” hisreputation is overextended. We forgive low-budget films their limitations,assuming that their directors would reach farther with more money. But “Scanners”seems to indicate that what Cronenberg wants is enough money to make a betterlow-budget movie.The film's story involves a breed of men andwomen who are "scanners," who can pick up the thoughts of other people,can enter their minds, and can mentally duel with them with such terrifyingforce that their enemies may literally have their heads explode. An interestingmovie might have been made about the human plight of these mind-readers (whatwould it be like to be able to eavesdrop on the thoughts of every miserablestraphanger on the way to work on the subway?). But “Scanners” doesn't get intothe human implications very deeply.Instead, it gives us a ready-made plot thatseems recycled from old “James Bond” movies and half-forgotten TV shows. Itturns out that a large corporation has an interest in locating all livingscanners, and using them for its own purposes. Two scanners (     Jennifer O'Neill    and     Stephen Lack    ) fight for their independence. Their antagonists include anevil scientist and a good scientist, and of course everybody's motives arehopelessly entangled in the third act, even before the big surprise revelation.The problem with “Scanners” is really very simple: It isabout its plot rather than about what happens to its characters. That is a bigdifference. Movies that are about their plots force their characters throughtheir predestined paces. Movies that are about characters seem to happen aswe're watching them. “Scanners” is so lockstep that we are basically reduced towatching the special effects, which are good but curiously abstract, because wedon't much care about the people they're happening around. Advertisement