The original John Reed was a dashing young man from Portland whoknew a good story when he found one, and, when he found himself in the midst ofthe Bolshevik revolution, wrote a book called "Ten Days That Shook theWorld" and made himself a famous journalist. He never quite got it rightagain after that. He became embroiled in the American left-wing politics of the1920s, participated in fights between factions of the Socialist Party and thenew American Communist Party, and finally returned to Moscow on a series of noblefool's errands that led up, one way or another, to his death from tuberculosisand kidney failure in a Russian hospital. He is the only American buried withinthe Kremlin walls. Advertisement That is Reed's story in a nutshell. But if you look a littlemore deeply you find a man who was more than a political creature. He was alsoa man who wanted to be where the action was, a radical young intellectual whowas in the middle of everything in the years after World War I, when GreenwichVillage was in a creative ferment and American society seemed, for a briefmoment, to be overturning itself. It is that personal, human John Reed thatWarren Beatty's "Reds" takes as its subject, although there is a lot,and maybe too much, of the political John Reed as well. The movie neversucceeds in convincing us that the feuds between the American socialist partieswere much more than personality conflicts and ego-bruisings, so audiences canhardly be expected to care which faction is "the" American party ofthe left. Whataudiences can, and possibly will, care about, however, is a traditionalHollywood romantic epic, a love story written on the canvas of history, as theyused to say in the ads. And "Reds" provides that with gloriousromanticism, surprising intelligence, and a consistent wit. It is the thinkingman's "Doctor Zhivago," told from the other side, of course. The lovestory stars Warren Beatty andDiane Keaton, who might seem just a tad unlikelyas casting choices, but who are immediately engaging and then grow into solid,plausible people on the screen. Keaton is a particular surprise. I had somehowgotten into the habit of expecting her to be a touchy New Yorker, sweet,scared, and intellectual. Here, as a Portland dentist's wife who runs away withJohn Reed and eventually follows him halfway around the world, throughblizzards and prisons and across icy steppes, she is just what she needs to be:plucky, healthy, exasperated, loyal, and funny. Beatty,as John Reed, is also surprising. I expected him to play Reed as a serious,noble, heroic man for all seasons, and so he does, sometimes. But there is inWarren Beatty's screen persona a persistent irony, a way of kidding his ownseriousness, that takes the edge off a potentially pretentious character andmakes him into one of God's fools. Beatty plays Reed but does not beatify him:He permits the silliness and boyishness to coexist with the self-conscioushistorical mission. Theaction in the movie takes Reed to Russia and back again to Portland, and offagain with Louise Bryant (Keaton), and then there is a lengthy pause inGreenwich Village and time enough for Louise to have a sad little love affairwith the morosely alcoholic playwrightEugene O'Neill(Jack Nicholson). Thenthere are other missions to Moscow, and heated political debates in New Yorkbasements, and at one point I'm afraid I entirely lost track of exactly whyReed was running behind a horsecart in the middle of some forgotten battle inan obscure backwater of the Russian empire. The fact is, Reed's motivation frommoment to moment is not the point of the picture. The point is that arevolution is happening, human societies are being swept aside, a new class isin control -- or so it seems -- and for an insatiably curious young man, thatis exhilarating, and it is enough. Advertisement Theheart of the film is in the relationship between Reed and Bryant. There is aninteresting attempt to consider her problems as well as his. She leavesPortland because she is sick unto death of small talk. She wants to getinvolved in politics, in art, in what's happening: She is so inexorably drawnto Greenwich Village that if Reed had not taken her there, she might have goneon her own. If she was a radical in Portland, however, she is an Oregonian inthe Village, and she cannot compete conversationally with such experiencedfast-talkers as the anarchist Emma Goldman (Maureen Stapleton). In fact, no oneseems to listen to her or pay much heed, except for sad Eugene O'Neill, who isbrave enough to love her but not smart enough to keep it to himself. The waysin which she edges toward O'Neill, and then loyally returns to Reed, create anemotional density around her character that makes it really mean something whenshe and Reed embrace at last in a wonderful tear-jerking scene in the Russiantrain station. Thewhole movie finally comes down to the fact that the characters matter to us.Beatty may be fascinated by the ins and outs of American left-wing politicssixty years ago, but he is not so idealistic as to believe an American massaudience can be inspired to care as deeply. So he gives us people. And they areseen here with such warmth and affection that we sense new dimensions not onlyin Beatty and Keaton, but especially in Nicholson. In "Reds,"understating his desire, apologizing for his passion, hanging around Louise,handing her a poem, throwing her out of his life, he is quieter but much morepassionate than in the overwrought "The Postman Always Rings Twice." Asfor Beatty, "Reds" is his bravura turn. He got the idea, nurtured itfor a decade, found the financing, wrote most of the script, produced, anddirected and starred and still found enough artistic detachment to make hisReed into a flawed, fascinating enigma instead of a boring archetypal hero. Iliked this movie. I felt a real fondness for it. It was quite a subject tospring on the capitalist Hollywood movie system, and maybe only Beatty couldhave raised $35 million to make a movie about a man who hated millionaires. Inoticed, here at the end of the credits, a wonderful line that reads: Copyrightcopy MCMLXXXI Barclays Mercantile Industrial Finance Limited. JohnReed would have loved that. Advertisement