Milos Formanapparently madea basic decision very early in his production of E.L. Doctorow's best-sellingnovel, Ragtime. He decided to set aside the book's kaleidoscopic jumble ofpeople, places, and things, and concentrate on just one of the severalnarrative threads. Instead of telling dozens of stories, his film is mostlyconcerned with the story of Coalhouse Walker, Jr., a black piano player whoinsists that justice be done after he is insulted by some yahoo volunteerfiremen.Doctorow's novel was an inspired juggling actinvolving both actual and fictional characters, who sometimes met in imaginaryscenes of good wit and imagery. The Coalhouse story was more or less equal withseveral others. A film faithful to the book would have had people walking inand out of each other's lives in an astonishing series of coincidences. Thatmight have been a good film, too. It might have looked a little like RobertAltman's “     Nashville    ” or “Buffalo Bill,” and indeed Altman was the firstfilmmaker signed to direct “Ragtime.” But we will never see what Altman mighthave done, and Forman decided to do something different. He traces the ways inwhich Coalhouse Walker enters and affects the lives of an upstate New Yorkfamily in the first decade of the century. The family lives in White Plains,New York, in a vast and airy old frame manor, and it consists of Father,Mother, and Younger Brother, with walk-ons by a grandfather and a young son.AdvertisementFor Younger Brother, the sirens of the big citycall, in the form of an infatuation with the chorus girl Evelyn Nesbit(     Elizabeth McGovern    ). That's before the saga of Coalhouse Walker alters his life.Coalhouse (in a superb performance by Howard E. Rollins, Jr.) meets the familyby accident, or maybe by fate. A young black woman gives birth to Coalhouse'sson, and then the family takes in both the woman and her son, hiring her astheir maid. Coalhouse comes calling. He wants to marry the mother of his child.He has earned enough money. Everything's all set for the ceremony, when anevent takes place that changes everything. The local volunteer firemen, enragedthat a black man would own his own Model T, block the car's way in front oftheir station. They pile horse manure on the front seat. And Coalhouse, quitesimply, cannot rest until he sees his car restored to him in its originalcondition.The story develops quickly into a confrontation.Coalhouse barricades himself into New York's J. Pierpont Morgan Library, andissues a set of demands. The library is surrounded by police and guardsmen, ledby Police Commissioner Rhinelander Waldo (the great     James Cagney    , out ofretirement). Father (     James Olson    ) gets drawn into negotiations, and YoungerBrother (     Brad Dourif    ) is actually one of Coalhouse's lieutenants, in blackfacedisguise. Meanwhile, Mother is running off with a bearded immigrant who startedout making cutout silhouettes on the streets and is now one of the first filmdirectors.The story of “Ragtime,” then, is essentially thestory of Coalhouse Walker, Jr. Forman, a Czechoslovakian with an unusually keeneye for American societyÑhis credits include “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest” and“     Hair    !”, has made a film about black pride and rage and, not only whiteracism, which we sort of expect, but also white liberalism.The great achievement of “Ragtime” is in itsperformances, especially Howard E. Rollins, Jr. and the changes he goes throughin this story, from youthful romantic love to an impassioned cry "Lord,why did you fill me with such rage?" Olson, quiet and self-effacing, issubtly powerful as Father.     Mary Steenburgen    is clear-voiced, primly ethicalMother who springs a big surprise on everyone. Pat O'Brien has two great scenesas a corrupt, world-weary lawyer.     Kenneth McMillan    blusters and threatens asthe racist fire chief. And when Cagney tells him "people tell me É you'reslime," there is the resonance of movie legend in his voice.Advertisement“Ragtime” is a loving, beautifully mounted,graceful film that creates its characters with great clarity. We understandwhere everyone stands, and most of the time we even know why. Forman surroundsthem with some of the other characters from the Doctorow novel (including HarryHoudini, Teddy Roosevelt, and     Norman Mailer    as the architect Sanford White),but in the film they're just atmosphere, window dressing. Forman's decision tostick with the story of Coalhouse is vindicated, because he tells it so well.