There are basically two waysto regard “Quest for Fire.” The movie is either (a) the moving story of howscattered tribes of very early men developed some of the traits that made themhuman, or (b) a laughable caveman picture in which a lot of lantern-jawedactors jump around in animal skins, snarling and swinging clubs at one another.During the movie's opening scenes, I found myself seeing it in the second way,as a borderline comedy. But then these characters and their quest began to growon me, and by the time the movie was over I cared very much about how theirlives would turn out. AdvertisementOther viewers report some of the same confusion.The movie has been compared with such varied works of art as “2001: A SpaceOdyssey” and “Alley Oop.” The question, I suppose, is whether you can make yourown leap of imagination into the world of the movie--whether you're willing toidentify with these beetle-browed ancestors who made more importantdiscoveries, in their way, than all of the Nobel laureates put together. Ifound I wasn't willing, and I was a little surprised at how much affection themovie generated.“Quest for Fire” was shot on rugged locations inCanada and Scotland and takes place at the dawn of man. It introduces us to atribe of primitive men who guard their most precious possession, which is fire.They know how to tend it and how to use it, but not how to make it. And after ajealous tribe of less-advanced creatures attacks them and destroys their fire,three men set out on an odyssey to seek another tribe that possesses fire andto steal it from them. Along the way, there are terrifying adventures. Asaber-toothed tiger chases the men up into a tree and keeps them there fordays. On another occasion, the heroes are trapped between an unfriendly tribeof apes and a herd of mastodons. In each situation, the men realize that simplyrunning away won't work; they can't run fast or far enough. And so they slowlyand painfully figure out a solution to their dilemma. Climbing the tree, forexample, is rather obvious, but their solution to the mastodon problem is abrave inspiration.Eventually the men discover another tribe, amore advanced tribe that lives in primitive huts and knows how to make fire andhas even developed arts (they decorate themselves with mud, and their clay potshave drawings of animals scratched on them). The leader of the wanderers lustsafter one of the women of the new tribe, and after a strange initiationceremony he has sex with her. Soon he will make one of his greatestdiscoveries: The difference between lust and love and how it leads to thedifference between isolation--and loneliness.Advertisement“Quest for Fire” compresses prehistory quiteradically, of course. It's a little much to expect that one man in one span ofa few weeks could make the scientific, emotional, and tactical discoveries thattake place in the movie. Our progress as a race must have been slower than that(although Loren Eiseley writes in his books of the amazing explosion of thesize of the human brain in just a handful of generations). “Quest for Fire” isn'tscience, though, it's an imaginary re-creation of our past, and it uses historyfor inspiration, not as a data source. The only two technical advisers listedin the credits are, appropriately, a novelist and a scientific popularizer:     Anthony Burgess    created the special primitive languages in the film, andDesmond Morris choreographed the body language and gestures.I suggested earlier that there's probably atemptation to laugh during “Quest for Fire,” especially during such touchyscenes as the one in which early woman teaches early man that it wasn't as goodfor her as it was for him. I smiled during those scenes. But, thinking over myresponse, I realize that I wasn't smiling at the movie, but at the behavior ofthe characters. Man is a comic beast. For all of our dignity, we are verysimple in many of our wants and desires, and as we crawled out of the primevalsludge and started our long trek toward civilization, there must have been manymore moments of comedy than of nobility.“Quest for Fire” cheerfully acknowledges that,and indeed some of its best scenes involve man's discovery of laughter. Whenone of the primitive tribesmen is hit on the head by a small falling stone, thewoman from the other tribe laughs and laughs. Our heroes are puzzled: Theyhaven't heard such a noise before. But it strikes some sort of deep chord, Iguess, because later, one of the tribesmen deliberately drops a small stone onhis friend's head, and then everybody laughs: The three men together with thewoman who taught them laughter. That's human. The guy who got hit on the headis, of course, a little slow to join in the laughter, but finally he goes alongwith the joke. That's civilization.Advertisement