He will not rat on his partners. This is his bottom line. Hewill talk to investigators about all the other guys he knows things about. Hewill talk about how narcotics cops get involved in the narcotics traffic, howthey buy information with drugs, how they string out addicts and use them asinformers, how they keep some of the money and some of the drugs after bigbusts. He will tell what he knows about how the other cops do these things. Buthe will not talk about his partners in his own unit. This is his code, and, ofcourse, he is going to have to break it. Advertisement That is the central situation ofSidney Lumet's "Prince ofthe City." While you are watching it, it's a movie about cops, drugs, andNew York City, in that order. After the film starts to turn itself over in yourmind, it becomes a much deeper piece, a film about how difficult it is to gostraight in a crooked world without hurting people you love. Drugsare a rotten business. They corrupt everyone they come into contact with,because they set up needs so urgent that all other considerations areforgotten. For addicts, the need is for the drug itself. For others, the needsare more complex. The members of the special police drug unit in "Princeof the City," for example, take on an envied departmental status becauseof their assignment. They have no hours, no beats, no uniforms. They are elitefree-lancers, modern knights riding out into the drug underworld andestablishing their own rules. They do not look at it this way, but their statusdepends on drugs. If there were no drugs and no addicts, there would be nonarcs, no princes of the city. Of course, their jobs are also cold, dirty,lonely, dangerous, thankless, and never finished. That is the other side of thedeal, and that helps explain why they will sometimes keep the money theyconfiscate in a drug bust. It'sas if they're levying their own fines. It also explains why they sometimessupply informers with drugs: They know better than anyone how horrible theaddict's life can be. "A junkie can break your heart," the hero ofthis movie says at one point, and by the movie's end we understand what hemeans. The film is based on a book byRobert Daleyabout Bob Leuci, a New York cop whocooperated with a 1971 investigation of police corruption. In the movie, Leuciis called Ciello, and he is played byTreat Williamsin a demanding andgrueling performance. Williams is almost always onscreen, and almost always insituations of extreme stress, fatigue, and emotional turmoil. We see him comingapart before our eyes. He falls to pieces not simply because of his job, orbecause of his decision to testify, but because he is in an inexorable trap andhe will sooner or later have to hurt his partners. This is a movie that literally hinges on the issue of perjury.And Sidney Lumet and his co-writer,Jay Presson Allen, have a great deal ofrespect for the legal questions involved. There is a sustained scene in thismovie that is one of the most spellbinding I can imagine, and it consistsentirely of government lawyers debating whether a given situation justifies acharge of perjury. Rarely are ethical issues discussed in such detail in amovie, and hardly ever so effectively. "Princeof the City" is a very good movie and, like some of its characters, itwants to break your heart. Maybe it will. It is about the ways in which acorrupt modern city makes it almost impossible for a man to be true to the law,his ideals, and his friends, all at the same time. The movie has no answers.Only horrible alternatives. Advertisement