“The Postman Always RingsTwice” is an absolutely superb mounting of a hollow and disappointingproduction. It shows a technical mastery of filmmaking, and we are dazzled bythe performances, the atmosphere, the mood of mounting violence. But by thesecond hour of the film we've lost our bearings: What is this movie sayingabout its characters? What does it feel and believe about them? Why was itnecessary to tell their stories? The movie is based on a hardboiled, classicnovel by James M. Cain, which has already inspired three previous films,including the famous 1946 John Garfield version. It isn't difficult to guesswhy the director,Bob Rafelson, wanted to make it again. On the basis of hiskey scenes, he was attracted by the physical violence in the story and he feltthat in 1981 he could deal more frankly with Cain's sexual savagery. AdvertisementHe was right. His film contains passages ofunusual physical power, including one in which     Jack Nicholson    and     Jessica Lange    make love (if that is the word) on a kitchen table. Nicholson plays aDepression-era drifter in the film, a cheap thief, and a con man. Lange is thebored and sensuous cook in a short-order joint run by her much older Greekhusband,     John Colicos    . Passion flares between Nicholson and Lange almost themoment they first see one another, and their lovemaking is quick, brutal,uncontrolled, and animalistic.Eventually, they kill Colicos, although notwithout the greatest difficulties. This is one of those films where blood,violence, and sheer weight of human bodies are made into Hitchcockianembarrassments. And then the two lovers are put on trial, are freed through acynical arrangement between opposing insurance companies, and then arrive at anironic fate. Along the way, there is a brief and totally inexplicableappearance by a woman lion tamer (     Anjelica Huston    ), who seems to be visitingfrom another movie.The movie is a triumph of atmosphere. Every lastweathered Coke sign, every old auto and old overcoat and old cliché have beenput in with loving care. And the performances have been cranked up to levels oftrembling intensity. Jessica Lange, first seen in “King Kong,” this timesubmits to the embrace of a wanton monster. Jack Nicholson has never been seedier,shiftier, more driven. John Colicos, as the simple, alcoholic, ambitiousGreek-American, provides a wonderfully textured performance. And yet, there isno feeling of tragedy in Colicos's death. No feeling of greatness in theromantic compulsion of Lange and Nicholson. No way to tell what the moviebelieves about their acquittal and eventual fate. A movie such as “Bonnie andClyde” comes to mind. It also dealt with passion, crime, and money, but soclearly that at the end of the film we felt we knew the dying characters.AdvertisementWe never know the people in “The Postman AlwaysRings Twice.” They are kept rigidly imprisoned within a tradition of absolutenaturalism: They exist, they eat, they sleep, they act. That would beacceptable if the filmmakers could stand outside their characters and havefeelings about them. But I never believed that was the case. Rafelson and hiscollaborators have gone to infinite pains, successfully, to create a film thatis wonderfully achieved on the level of production. But they have not filled itwith the purposes of its characters.