“Pennies from Heaven” isdazzling and disappointing in equal measure. It's a musical with an idea, andideas usually have been deadly to the musical, that most gloriously heedless ofmovie genres. The idea this time is that there was a great contrast between thegrim reality of the Depression era, and the mindless song-and-dance of theera's favorite escapist entertainment, the musical. Well, so there was, andviva la difference.“Pennies from Heaven” illustrates its insight bysetting up a brutal contrast between its dramatic scenes and its musicalnumbers. The story in this film is relentlessly downbeat, cruel, andoccasionally twisted: A miserable marriage leads to a cheerless love affair,both based on the sexual humiliation of women. Then, just as we are primed tohurl ourselves out of the window, the characters undergo a transmogrificationinto inhabitants of an upbeat 1930s musical. The voices of Bing Crosby, ConneeBoswell,     Fred Astaire    , and other Depression recording artists issue from theirmouths, and they dance their way through the most dazzling production numberssince Busby Berkeley.AdvertisementThe movie keeps cutting back and forth betweenits mean-spirited narrative and the empty-headed perfection of its musicalnumbers until we're as dispirited as the characters. We get it: Nothing is realexcept pain, and anyone who dares to sing "Let's Face the Music andDance" is sooner or later going to have to face the music. It is thestructure of “Pennies from Heaven” that works most fatally against the film. Afew key scenes contrasting grim reality and movie escapism would have made thepoint, but two hours of contrast simply destroy our ability to get into themovie and enjoy it. The movie constantly shatters its own reality, which is,admittedly, a daring thing for a $25 million musical to do, but in this case isnot a very good idea.Original ads placed the emphasis on the movie'smusical numbers and its stars, especially sheet music salesman     Steve Martin    andhis schoolteacher mistress,     Bernadette Peters    (there was less emphasis on     Jessica Harper    , who plays Martin's desperately hapless wife). Hollywood isalways pragmatic in these matters: If the filmmakers haven't made the film thestudio had in mind, the studio simply advertises the film they wish had beenmade. That led to some thoroughly puzzled audiences, as Martin fans lined upfor a wild and crazy musical and discovered they were in a musical that wantedto subvert musicals. Some of the scenes in “Pennies from Heaven” are very hardto take, especially one in which Harper pathetically tries to cater to Martin'sfavorite fetish, which is lipstick on the nipples; this is the mostembarrassing and gratuitously cruel scene I've seen in a long time.On the other hand, “Pennies” also containsmusical scenes that are wonderfully entertaining, even if the movie has a wayof ending them with emotional crash landings. The choreography has beenreferred to as a Busby Berkeley parody, but it's not parody, it's homage, andnever have I seen such well-drilled troupes of chorus girls, song-and-dancemen, and even well-scrubbed little toddlers lined up at dozens of baby grandpianos.The production values in this movie are superb,and it's great to look at, not only during the musical interludes but even inthe dramatic moments. Many of the compositions are borrowed from famouspaintings or photographs of the time.Advertisement The problem is, “Pennies fromHeaven” is all flash and style and no heart. That's the problem with the SteveMartin performance, too: He provides a technically excellent performance thatdoes not seem to be inhabited by a person. Bernadette Peters has a winning waywith the schoolteacher, all curls and sweetness and shattered hopes, but theemotional reality of the other characters is consistently undermined by themovie's lame-brained determination to interrupt each happy moment with a grimone, and vice versa, until we're emotionally shellshocked. Just imagine if thecreativity, energy, work, talent, and money that went into “Pennies from Heaven”had been devoted instead to a cheerful film on the same topic. Boy, would weneed it now.