Burt Reynoldsseems to havetwo basic screen characters, which, for ease of classification, we can describeas Bad Burt and Good Reynolds. Bad Burt is a mean ol' boy who tools around theSouthland in a souped-up sports car, infuriating sheriffs and making SallyField cry. Good Reynolds, however, is a guy who used to be macho and heartless,but has grown into a sensitive, caring kinda guy who is trying to build bridgesto women and children.“Paternity” gives us the good guy. The Reynoldscharacter is a lot like the man he played in “     Starting Over    ” and maybe a littlebit in “Hooper,” a guy torn between a self-image as a ladies' man and a desireto grow more sensitive. This time, he's the manager of Madison Square Garden,and he leads a lonely but (he thinks) idyllic existence as a New York playboy.He's got a date every night, but there's nobody to come home to. And when heshoots baskets with a friend's son, he begins to realize that he would like tohave a son, too. Not a family, mind you. And certainly not a wife. But a son.He sends out feelers for a surrogate mother. All the candidates are impossibleor have braces on their teeth. Then he stumbles across a pretty blonde waitressin a restaurant where he has lunch. She's a music student, wants to study in Paris,and will bear his child for a one-time payment of $50,000 (considerably higherthan market price, I believe).AdvertisementThe waitress is played by     Beverly D'Angelo    . Shewas the rich kid in HAIR and Patsy Cline in “Coal Miner’s Daughter.” She iswonderful in this movie, soft and warm and understanding. Of course, we know(although Good Reynolds is slow to catch on) that they will eventually fall inlove. God knows Burt tries to hold out and play the playboy role, buteventually even his sexy dates such as     Elizabeth Ashley    start to like D'Angeloand to lay a guilt trip on Reynolds.But a-ha, you are thinking, I have given theplot away. Well, yes and no. I have given the plot away in one sense, but inanother sense this movie drives us to the edges of our seat with maddeningfrustration because it is so slow to give itself away. “Paternity” isabsolutely predictable at every moment. Stop the film at any point, and nineout of ten viewers could correctly predict what was going to happen next.The movie has another flaw. It takes itscharacters just a little too evenly. Although the movie was directed by DavidSteinberg, a comic actor with a good sense of timing, “Paternity's” timing isso slowpaced and stately that there are times when this doesn't feel like acomedy, it feels like a historical romance. People speak at a measured pace;they move through scenes as if preprograrnmed; they do not contain the passionand surprise you would expect in a story dealing with matters of sex and lifeand identity. Too bad. Burt Reynolds can be a most engaging actor; the moviesurrounds him with other convincing actors such as     Paul Dooley    and     Norman Fell    ;Elizabeth Ashley does some nice things with her small role. But “Paternity” isso preordained. It fulfills every one of our expectations with a deadeningsafeness. It is about a man who wants a child so that he will leave somethingafter himself, but it never convinces us that he has a self to leave.