Neil Simon's “Only When ILaugh” is basically a movie about a woman who is recovering from alcoholism,although the film also provides us with a lonely homosexual, a disturbedteenager, a fortyish woman losing her husband, and a “Looking for Mr. Goodbar” scenein which protagonistMarsha Masonis assaulted and raped. It comes billed asone of Neil Simon's "serious" films. That means that it is aboutserious subjects. It does not mean Simon examines them seriously. The filmshould have contained half so many problems if he hoped to provide us withinsights into them. But Simon uses misfortunes as a way of creating characters.If he can create an "alcoholic," then he doesn't have to create athree-dimensional person for his film. He can just fill out the person's lifewith predictable crises from the disease. The same with the film's homosexual,who can complain of loneliness, rejection, feelings of inadequacy, can doeverything, indeed, except be gay onscreen. AdvertisementThere are times, as a result, when “Only When ILaugh” seems like a series of characters reporting to headquarters. Many of thebig moments take place offscreen, and then the movie stars turn up onscreen totell us about them. Maybe that is not so bad. In the scenes where Simon doestry to grapple with his film's issues, he exhibits little understanding. Take,for example, the business of his central character's alcoholism. The movie'sheroine, played by Simon's wife, Marsha Mason, is an actress who is just beingreleased from a rehabilitation program when the movie opens. The doctorcongratulates her on her wonderful progress. Then she hits the streets, whereher entire program for maintaining sobriety seems to consist of (a) keeping upa brave front, (b) looking noble, (c) wallowing in self-pity with theencouragement of her neurotic friends, (d) quickly walking past bars, and (e)gulping a drink the moment things start to go wrong.No wonder she gets drunk again. That'spredictable, but couldn't Simon have spared us a lapse scene reminiscent of “TheFatal Glass of Beer?” At one point, a glass of wine looms so menacingly on apiano top in the foreground that we think this is a Hitchcock film and that thebooze must be poisoned. (In other shots in the same scene, the continuity is sosloppy that the glass disappears from the piano, but never mind.) Simon andMason must not drink, know little about drinking, and less about how to stopdrinking. If Simon had cared enough to look into the subject, he might, givenhis undeniable comic gifts, have been inspired to write some really good stuffabout the joys and pitfalls of sobriety. (Can you imagine a Neil Simon versionof an AA meeting?)But Simon's not that interested in any of theproblems he hauls onscreen in “Only When I Laugh.” He'll settle for maudlinmother-daughter confrontations, cozy, clichéd scenes of"understanding" between Mason and her gay friend (     James Coco    ), andhistrionics from another friend (     Joan Hackett    ) who comes undone upon turningforty. The only genuine moments amid the phony landscapes of this film comefrom     Kristy McNichol    , who turns in a wonderful performance as Mason's daughter.McNichol carries conviction. She suggests the real passions and hurts that hercharacter must feel. The other people in the movie seem to be drawn fromsuperficial medical advice columns, advice for the lovelorn, and the characterinsights of popular songs. Anyone consulting this movie for insights intoalcoholism would be better off asking a bartender.Advertisement