If there's anything I can'tstand in a movie, it's a sweet, lovable, cute little kid who is so adorable,and knows he's so adorable, you want to cringe. That's why seeingGary Colemanin “On the Right Track” was so much fun for me. I don't know how other people relateto Coleman, the precocious three-foot-nine-inch star of TV's "Diff'rentStrokes," but in my opinion he is the shortest cynical adult in thehistory of the movies.It is probably true, I suppose, that GaryColeman is cute. He is probably also capable of being sweet, and no doubt hisfamily loves him. But Coleman doesn't bask in his own high opinion of himself.He always seems to be thinking up a scam. In a scene where a big-city mayorcomes to pat Coleman on the head and tell him what a great kid he is, Colemansizes up the mayor like he's getting ready to ask for a patronage job. Gary'stireless self-assertion in his relationships with adults is the best thing inthis movie.AdvertisementUnfortunately, there are also a great many otherthings in “On the Right Track.” What could have been a bright little comedy isso jampacked with supporting players, subplots, and distractions that it seemsmuch longer than it is, and even Coleman's fortitude doesn't get us through.Gary plays a little shoeshine boy who lives in a double locker In Chicago'sUnion Station. He's a little hustler who knows all the people in the station,especially the pizza man (     Herb Edelman    ) and the cashier in the amusement arcade(     Lisa Eilbacher    ). They look out for him, especially when the cigar-chewing bossof the shoeshine concession tries to run him out of business.The plot involves a well-intentioned ploy by thecity to move Gary from his locker in Union Station and into an orphanage (whichis run by a towering matron who looks like Ilsa, She-Wolf of the S.S.). Garydoesn't like it in the orphanage. And when his police juvenile officer (MichaelLembeck) discovers that the kid has the gift of perfectly predicting the winninghorses in the daily trifecta, suddenly a whole lot of adults get veryprotective of Coleman.Up until this point, the movie works just fine,especially on the several occasions when Coleman steals a scene from hiscolleagues and just walks away with it. He has dialogue, doubletakes,one-liners, and reactions that are absolutely inimitable. Unfortunately, themovie strays away from Coleman's special qualities and gets distracted withseveral subplots, including (a) a romance between Eilbacher and Lembeck, (b)their plan to adopt Gary, (c) the local mayor's plan to use Gary's racepredictions to retire the city debt, and (d) the totally unnecessaryintroduction of a whole scheme involving the Mafia, and (e) Coleman's own planto organize a bunch of other kids into a freelance redcap operation. Thisabundance of plotting eventually becomes baffling, and the movie begins toresemble a headlong dash through its cast of characters. Too bad. The cast isgood, even if it's too populous (     Norman Fell    has an especially droll scene withGary while they're seated on top of a billboard in Union Station). And Colemanhimself has special qualities worth exploring in a movie that's less manic, andmore willing to give its characters time to be themselves.