Simple affection is so rare in the movies. Shyness andresentment are also seldom seen. Love is much talked-about, but how often do wereally believe that the characters are in love and not simply in a pleasantstate of lust and like? Fragile emotions are hard to portray in a movie, andthe movies that reach for them are more daring, really, than movies thatbludgeon us with things like anger and revenge, which are easy to portray. "On Golden Pond" is a treasure for many reasons, butthe best one, I think, is that I could believe it. I could believe in its majorcharacters and their relationships, and in the things they felt for oneanother, and there were moments when the movie was witness to human growth andchange. I left the theater feeling good and warm, and with a certain resolve totry to mend my own relationships and learn to start listening better. All ofthose achievements are small miracles for any movie, but especially for this one,which began as a formula stage play and still contains situations andcharacters that are constructed completely out of cardboard. Advertisement Thestory of "On Golden Pond" begins with the arrival of an old,long-married couple (Henry FondaandKatharine Hepburn) at the lakeside cottagewhere they have summered for many years. They know each other very well.Hepburn, of course, knows Fonda better than he knows her -- or himself, forthat matter. Fonda is a crotchety, grouchy old professor whose facade concealsa great deal of shyness, we suspect. Hepburn knows that. Before long, threemore people turn up at the pond: Their daughter (Jane Fonda), her fiancé(Dabney Coleman), and his son (Doug McKeon). That'sthe first act. In the second act, the conflicts are established. Jane Fondafeels that her father has never really given her her due -- he wanted a son, orperhaps he never really understood how to be a father, anyway. Jane tells herparents that she's spending a month in Europe with Coleman, and, ah, would it beall right if they left the kid at the lake? Hepburn talks the old man into it.In the central passages of the movie, the old man and the kid grudgingly movetoward some kind of communication and trust. There is a crisis involving aboating accident, and a resolution that brings everybody a lot closer to therealization that life is a precious and fragile thing. Through learning torelate to the young boy, old Fonda learns, belatedly, how to also trust his owndaughter and communicate with her: The kid provides Henry with practice at howto be a father. There is eventually the sort of happy ending that some peoplecry through. Viewedsimply as a stage plot, "On Golden Pond" is so predictable we canalmost hear the gears squeaking. Forty-five minutes into the movie, almosteveryone in the audience can probably predict more or less what is going tohappen to the characters, emotionally. And yet "On Golden Pond"transcends its predictability and the transparent role of the young boy, andbecomes a film with passages of greatness. Thisis because of the acting, first of all, but also becauseErnest Thompson, whowrote such a formula play, has furnished it with several wonderful scenes. Aconversation between old Henry Fonda and young Coleman is an early indicationthat this is going to be an unusual movie: A man who is forty-five asks a manwho is eighty for permission to sleep in the same room with the man's daughter,and after the old man takes the question as an excuse for some cruel put-downs,the conversation takes an altogether unexpected twist into words of simpletruth. That is a good scene. So are some of the conversations between Hepburnand Fonda. And so are some remarkable scenes involving the boating accident, inwhich there is no doubt that Hepburn, at her age, is doing some of her ownstunts. It's at moments like this that stardom, acting ability, character,situation -- and what the audience already knows about the actors -- all cometogether into an irreplaceable combination. Advertisement Aseverybody knows, this is the first film in which Hepburn and the two Fondashave acted in any combination with one another. Some reviews actually seem todismiss the casting as a stunt. I believe it adds immeasurably to the film'seffect. If Hepburn and Henry Fonda are legends, seen in the twilight of theirlives, and if we've heard that Jane and Henry have had some of the sameproblems offscreen that they have in this story, does that make the moviesimple gossip? No, not if the movie deals honestly with the problems, as this onedoes. As people, they have apparently learned something about loving and caringthat, as actors, they are able to communicate, even through the medium of thisimperfect script. Watching the movie, I felt I was witnessing something rareand valuable.