If there's one quality thatmiddle-class Americans have in common, it's a tendency to be rigidly polite inthe face of absolutely unacceptable behavior. Confronted with obnoxiousrudeness, we freeze up, we get a nervous little smile, we allow our eyes tofocus on the middle distance, and we cannot believe this is happening to us.It's part of our desire to avoid a scene. We'd rather choke to death in arestaurant than break a plate to attract attention. “Neighbors” is about onesuch man, Earl Keese (John Belushi). He is a pleasant, low-key dumpling of afellow. He lives an uneventful life with an uneventful wife (Kathryn Walker).Then the neighbors move in, and there goes the neighborhood. They areeverything we dread in neighbors. They are loud. They are blatant freeloaders.The man (Dan Aykroyd) is gung-ho macho. The woman (Cathy Moriarty, from “RagingBull”) is oversexed and underloved. They park some kind of customized truck ontheir front lawn. They invite themselves to dinner. AdvertisementThere are compensations. For example, the womanseems to be a nymphomaniac. That would be more of a compensation for Earl if hewere not terrified of aggressive women. Earl has not the slightest notion ofhow to deal with these next-door maniacs, and his wife's no help: She puts onher best smile and tries to handle the situation as if everyone were playing byEmily Post's rules. The story of the Keeses and their weird neighbors was firsttold in Thomas Berger's novel. It was obviously a launching pad for a movie,but what sort of movie? The relationships among these neighbors depend almostentirely on the chemistry of casting: For example, obnoxious     Richard Benjamin    could have moved in next to meek     Donald Sutherland    .In "Neighbors," however, weget Belushi and Aykroyd. I think it was brilliant casting, especially sincethey divided the roles somewhat against our expectations. Belushi, the mostanimalistic animal in “Animal House,” plays the mild-mannered Keese. AndAykroyd, who often plays straight-arrows, makes the new neighbor into a loudneo-fascist with a back slap that can kill.The movie slides easily from its opening slicesof life into a surburban nightmare. We know things are strange right at the start,when Aykroyd extorts money from Belushi to get a carry-out Italian dinner, andthen secretly cooks the spaghetti right in his own kitchen. Belushi sneaks outinto the night to spy on Aykroyd and catches him faking it with Ragu, but istoo intimidated to say anything. The whole movie goes like that, with Belushiso intimidated that he hardly protests even when he finds himself sinking intoquicksand.Meanwhile, the women are making their ownstrange arrangements, especially after the Keese's college-age daughter(Lauren-Marie Taylor) comes home from school and begins attracting Moriarty'sattention. The movie operates as a satire of social expectations, using polite clichésas counterpoint to deadly insults (all delivered in pleasant conversationaltones).The first hour of “Neighbors” is probably morefun than the second, if only because the plot developments come as a series ofsurprises. After a while, the bizarre logic of the movie becomes morepredictable. But “Neighbors” is a truly interesting comedy, an offbeatexperiment in hallucinatory black humor. It grows on you.Advertisement