I can't imagine who would want to subject themselves to thismovie. "Mommie Dearest" is a painful experience that drones onendlessly, as Joan Crawford's relationship with her daughter, Christina,disintegrates from cruelty through jealousy into pathos. It is unremittinglydepressing, not to any purpose of drama or entertainment, but just to depress.It left me feeling creepy. The movie was inspired, of course, by a best-selling memoir inwhich adopted daughter Christina Crawford portrayed her movie-star mother as agrasping, sadistic, alcoholic wretch whose own insecurities and monstrous egomade life miserable for everyone around her. I have no idea if the book'sportrait is an accurate one, but the movie is faithful to it in one key sense:It made life miserable for me. Advertisement "MommieDearest" repeats the same basic dramatic situation again and again. BabyChristina tries to do the right thing, tries to be a good girl, tries to pleaseMommie, but Mommie is a manic-depressive who alternates between brief triumphsand long savage tirades, infecting her daughter with resentment and guilt. Inscene after scene, we are invited to watch as Joan Crawford screams atChristina, chops her hair with scissors, beats her with a wire coat hanger and,on an especially bad day, tackles her across an end table, hurls her to thecarpet, bangs her head against the floor, and tries to choke her to death. Whowants to watch this? Thismaterial is presented essentially as sensationalism. The movie makes no attemptto draw psychological insights from the life of its Joan Crawford, not eventhrough the shorthand Freudianism much beloved by Hollywood. Mommie is amonster, that's all, and there's some mention of her unhappy childhood.Christina is a brave, smiling, pretty, long-suffering dope who might inspiremore sympathy if she were not directed (in both her childhood and adultversions) to be distant and veiled. Themovie doesn't even make narrative sense. Success follows crisis without anypattern. At one moment, Joan is in triumph after winning the Oscar for"Mildred Pierce." In the very next scene she goes so berserk we wantto scrape her off the screen with a spatula. The scenes don't build, they justhappen. Another example: After an especially ugly fight, Joan sends Christinato a convent school. There's a scene where the mother superior welcomes her andpromises to reform her. One scene later, Christina checks out of the school,and the nun wishes her godspeed. No mention of what happened in the school, howit affected Christina, or whether the nun changed her opinion of the girl. Themovie also offers few insights into Crawford's relationships with others. There'sa loyal housekeeper, but never a scene where Crawford speaks personally withher. There is a lover and a third husband, both enigmas. Crawford's actingcareer is treated mostly in ellipses. The sets look absolutely great, FayeDunaway's impersonation of Crawford is stunningly suggestive and convincing,and littleMara Hobel, as Baby Christina, handles several difficult momentsvery well. But to what end? "Mommie Dearest" is a movie that knowsexactly how it wants to look, but has no idea what it wants to make us feel. Advertisement