The late Rainer WernerFassbinder was not the kind of young European director who scorned the glitterof Hollywood. He was raised on American movies, one a day during hisadolescence, and he once said that his dream was to make a film as beautiful asa great Hollywood movie of the 1930s, embodying his personal vision.The earlier works in his astonishing output ofsome 40 films were made on budgets too small to support that kind of vision.But in the last few years of his life, he several times had the budgets and thecasts to make movies that looked and felt as elaborate as pre-war Hollywoodstudio productions. The titles included his "German trilogy" of “TheMarriage of Maria Braun,” “Lois” and “Veronika Voss,” also “Lili Marleen.”AdvertisementThis is a film laden with irony. It stars HannaSchygulla, who became an international star by appearing in the big-budget “MariaBraun.” That role was about a woman who tried single-handedly to recreateherself in a successful image; her life paralleled the postwar "Germaneconomic miracle." Now in “Lili Marleen” here is another woman, namedWillie, whose public life parallels the rise and fall of Nazism.The movie opens in 1938, late for a well-informedGerman to be naive about the Nazi party, but Willie doesn't seem very tuned in.She sings in a cabaret, she falls in love with     Giancarlo Giannini    , and shelearns that Giannini is a leader in the anti-Nazi underground.She supports him, sort of, without ever reallyplacing her own life on the line. In Germany, she records a version of"Lili Marleen," which is played on the radio and becomes the song ofthe moment. She is identified with the song, with Nazism, and with the wareffort, and becomes a national heroine while at the same time reserving herprivate life for the resistance hero. She seems able to reconcile public andprivate codes that are diametrically opposed.The movie intercuts the Nazi investigation ofGiannini's activities with interminable reprises of Schygulla singing"Lili Marleen," until there is an ironic appropriateness whenFassbinder devises a new Nazi instrument of torture: a brief bit from therecord of "Lili Marleen," played over and over again at a helplessprisoner, a sort of Chinese water torture of the ears.“Lili Marleen” is not one of Fassbinder's greatfilms. But it has a wicked sense of humor, displayed in Fassbinder's twofavorite opposites, understatement and hyperbole. His characters take the mostamazing things quietly in stride, and then get hysterical over trifles; theirlittle ambitions and intrigues obsess them while, half-noticed in thebackground, civilization crumbles underneath the lamplight.