This is a terrific movie forkids and teenagers. It's a melancholy fact of the times we live in that anymovie of even moderate ambition is supposed to become a blockbuster, and that"family movies," with few exceptions, are inane, innocent, andboring. But “The Incredible Shrinking Woman” is not inane, is sometimeswickedly knowing, and is only periodically boring. It strikes a note of quietdesperation that appeals to the teenager in all of us. WhenLily Tomlin'scharacter has shrunk to twenty-four inches in height and is desperatelyscreaming for help because she is about to be flushed down the garbage disposalunit, who among us cannot say he has felt exactly the same way? AdvertisementI suppose that at some basic level “TheIncredible Shrinking Woman” is a protest against the lot of the housewife inAmerican society. As Lily Tomlin slaves away in her suburban dream home, herhusband (     Charles Grodin    ) gets big raises and promotions for advertisinghome-care products. And eventually one of those products (was it the dye?detergent? glue?) causes Lily Tomlin to start shrinking. One of the intriguingthings about the movie is that the smaller Tomlin gets, the more people treather like a child. She even winds up living in a doll's house. I would like toargue that this is a dilemma not limited to housewives. A lot of people knowthis feeling. Kids can identify with the maddening sensation that they aresmaller than everyone else in the world and no one is listening! Teenagers havegrown accustomed to being stuck down the garbage disposal of life: Nobody wantsthem around, and most people would probably like to hit a switch and make themdisappear.So there's a certain poignant comedy in “TheIncredible Shrinking Woman” that strikes some chords. The movie is also funnyin its visual approach, showing us a suburban world in which everything is donein hideously jolly colors and everybody, even the TV anchorman, wears peachblazers. America in this movie looks like a gigantic paint-color chart.It's too bad, I suppose, that “The IncredibleShrinking Woman” succeeds on the levels I've mentioned without ever breakingthrough to become a really inspired comedy. Lily Tomlin is such a funny womanthat we expect her to hit home runs in every movie. She doesn't in this one,but she does something almost as hard. She creates a character that is halfwaybelievable, in the midst of chaos. She causes us to feel a certain comicsympathy for her plight. And, for that matter, she inhabits a plight that isinteresting. Most "family movies" these days are uninspired, moronic,and directed and acted without any visible style. “The Incredible ShrinkingWoman” at least has an intelligence behind it. It is engaging a lot of the timeand funny some of the time, especially when a gorilla helps the two-inch-tallTomlin escape from captivity.