Mel Brooks's movie “Historyof the World, Part 1” is a rambling, undisciplined, sometimes embarrassingfailure from one of the most gifted comic filmmakers around. What went wrong?Brooks never seems to have a clear idea of the rationale of his movie, sothere's no confident narrative impetus to carry it along. His"history" framework doesn't have an approach or point of view; it'sbasically just a laundry-line for whatever gags he can hang on it.What is this bizarre grab bag? Is it a parody ofold Biblical, Roman, and French historical epics? Sometimes. Is it one-shot,comedy revue blackouts? Sometimes. Is it satire aimed at pompous targets?Sometimes. But most of the time it's basically just expensive sets sittingaround waiting for Brooks to do something funny in front of them.AdvertisementBrooks seems to rely on his own spontaneouscomic genius in this film, and genius, even when you have it, is not somethingto be relied upon. He provides isolated moments that are indeed hilarious,moments that find an inspired image and zing us with it (as when a slaveboogies through the streets of ancient Rome with a loud transistor radio gluedto his ear). But as the movie creeps on, we realize that the inspirations aregoing to be rare, and that Brooks has not bothered to create a framework forthe movie or to people it with characters. It's all just cardboard comiccutouts.The film has another serious problem: It is inunfunny bad taste. That sounds strange coming from me. I've always enjoyedBrooks's ventures into taboo subject matter, and I still think his"Springtime for Hitler" from “The Producers” and the celebratedcampfire scene in “     Blazing Saddles    ” were hilarious. He seemed to bedemonstrating that you could get away with almost anything in a movie, if youmade it funny enough. (Told that “The Prodcuers” was vulgar, he once respondedloftily, "It rises below vulgarity.") But this time, the things he'strying to get away with aren't funny. There is, for example, the movie'stiresome series of jokes about urination. There must be comic possibilities inthe subject (and he finds one when he shows a Stone Age critic's method ofreviewing a cave painting), but there is nothing inherently funny abouturination, and Brooks proves it here, again and again.There also is nothing inherently funny aboutJews, Catholics, nuns, blacks, and gays. They can all conceivably provide themakings of comedy, of course, but in “History of the World” Brooks doesn't havethe patience to introduce a character and then create a comic situation abouthim. He introduces the character and expects us to laugh at the characterhimself. Example. Instead of developing a comic situation around Orthodox Jews,he simply shows us some, complete with beards and hats, their heads stuckthrough a stockade, and expects us to laugh. But while we might laugh withBrooks at a comic situation, we have no reason to laugh at people just becauseof their appearance or religion.AdvertisementThe same thing goes wrong with Brooks's bigproduction number in this movie, "The Inquisition," featuring asong-and-dance team of medieval monks, and a chorus line of nuns who splash ina pool, Busby Berkeley-style. We're supposed to laugh at the shockingjuxtaposition of religious images and Hollywood corn. But Brooks never gives usan additional comic level, one where he's making funny points about the images.When he dresses up like a monk and then dances like     Donald O'Connor    , that'sonly funny for a second. If we knew anything about the monk as a comiccharacter, the scene could build. Instead, it just continues.“History of the World, Part 1” was fairlyexpensive to produce, but it exists on the level of quick, disposable,television. It thumbs its nose at icons that have lost their taboo value formost of us, and between the occasional good laughs, we're a little embarrassedthat the movie is so dumb and predictable. God knows Mel Brooks is strainingfor yuks up there on the screen, but he's like the life of the party who stillhas the lampshade on his head when everybody else is ready to go home.