It was that legendary Chicagofilm exhibitor Oscar Brotman who gave me one of my most useful lessons in theart of film-watching. "In ninety-nine films out of a hundred,"Brotman told me, "if nothing has happened by the end of the first reel Énothing is going to happen." This rule, he said, had saved him countlesshours over the years because he had walked out of movies after the firstuneventful reel.I seem to remember arguing with him. There aresome films, I said, in which nothing happens in the first reel because thedirector is trying to set up a universe of ennui and uneventfulness. Take amovie like Michelangelo Antonioni's “L’Avventura,” for example.Advertisement"It closed in a week," Brotmansaid."But, Oscar, it was voted one of the topten greatest films of all time!""They must have all seen it in the firstweek."I was running this conversation through mymemory while watching “Hell Night.”    You know a movie is in trouble when what ishappening on the screen inspires daydreams. I had lasted through the firstreel, and nothing had happened. Now I was somewhere in the middle of the thirdreel, and still nothing had happened. By "nothing," by the way, Imean nothing original, unexpected, well-crafted, interestingly acted, or evenexcitingly violent. “Hell Night” is a relentlessly lackluster example of theDead Teenager Movie. The formula is always the same. A group of kids gettogether for some kind of adventure or forbidden ritual in a haunted house,summer camp, old school, etc. One of the kids tells a story about the horribleand gruesome murders that happened there years ago. He always ends the sameway: ", and they say the killer never died and is still lurking heresomewhere." That was the formula of “The Burning” and the “Friday The 13th”movies, and it's the formula again in “Hell Night.”This time, the pretext is a fraternity-sororityinitiation stunt. The venue is an old mansion. We learn that the hapless Garthfamily once lived there and had four deformed and handicapped children. Themisfortunes of the children are described in great detail, with dialogue that'sin very bad taste. But then of course “Hell Night” is in bad taste. The onlychild that need concern us is the youngest Garth, who was named Andrew and wasborn, we are told, a "gork." None of the dictionaries at my commandinclude the word "gork," but for the purposes of “Hell Night” we candefine "gork" thus:Gork(n.) Deformed, violent creature that lurks inhorror movies, jumping out of basement shadows and decapitating screamingteenagers.I have now of course, given away the plot of “HellNight.” As the fraternity and sorority kids creep through passageways of theold house, their candle flames fluttering in the wind, Andrew the Gork picksthem off, one by one, in scenes of bloody detail. Finally only     Linda Blair    isleft. Why does she survive? Maybe because she's a battle-hardened veteran,having previously more or less lived through “     The Exorcist    ,” “Exorcist II: TheHeretic,” and “Born Innocent.” At least in those movies, something happened inthe first reel.Advertisement