It's a little sad to witnessa fall from greatness, and that's what we get in “Halloween II.” JohnCarpenter's original 1978 “Halloween” was one of the most effective horrorfilms ever made, a scarifying fable of a mad-dog killer's progress through asmall Illinois town on Halloween. That movie inspired countless imitations,each one worse than the last, until the sight of a woman's throat being slashedbecame ten times more common in the movies than the sight of a kiss.Mad Slasher Movies, they were called, and theybecame a genre of their own, even inspiring a book of pseudoscholarship,Splatter Movies, by John McCarty. His definition of a Splatter Film is conciseand disheartening, and bears quoting: "[They] aim not to scare theiraudiences, necessarily, nor to drive them to the edge of their seats insuspense, but to mortify them with scenes of explicit gore. In splatter movies,mutilation is indeed the message, many times the only one."Advertisement“Halloween II” fits this description precisely.It is not a horror film but a geek show. It is technically a sequel, but itdoesn't even attempt to do justice to the original. Instead, it tries to outdoall the other violent “Halloween” rip-offs of the last several years. The moviedoes not have the artistry or the imagination of the original, but it does havenew technology: For those like McCarty who keep records of such things, thismovie has the first close-up I can remember of a hypodermic needle beinginserted into an eyeball. We see that twice. It mortifies the viewer nicely,just as scenes in Splatter Movies are supposed to do. There are a few othermoments of passable originality, as when the killer disfigures the face of abeautiful woman by plunging her repeatedly into the scalding water of awhirlpool bath. But for the most part, “Halloween II” is a retread of “Halloween”without that movie's craft, exquisite timing, and thorough understanding ofhorror.The movie begins just where the last one leftoff, with some of the same footage, indeed. The mysterious, invincible killer(who escaped from an institution earlier that Halloween day) has just tried tokill     Jamie Lee Curtis    . But     Donald Pleasence    , a psychiatrist who has decided thekiller is literally inhuman, fires six bullets at close range. The killer isdown, but not out. As the first movie ended, his body had disappeared. As thisone opens, he's on the prowl again, still shuffling after screaming women atthe same maddening slow pace.The plot of “Halloween II” absolutely depends,of course, on our old friend the Idiot Plot which requires that everyone in themovie behave at all times like an idiot. That's necessary because if anyonewere to use common sense, the problem would be solved and the movie would beover. So Jamie Lee Curtis and other young women consistently run into trapswhere the killer can corner them. In the first film, Jamie Lee locked herselfin an upstairs closet. This time, it's a basement boiler room. The movie'sother idiotic masterstroke comes when Curtis and a young kid are hiding in acar parked outside, and the kid slumps forward and honks the horn, revealinghis hiding place. Inspired. The killer keeps coming. He's relentless. So is themovie. It uses the standard horror formula: Cause a false alarm, get a laugh,and then spring violence on the audience. You know how it works. The heroineopens a creaking door into a dark room and peers inside. A hand claps her onthe shoulder. The audience screams. But whaddya know, it's only the friendly teenageintern. Laughter. Then the killer strikes.AdvertisementThis can get monotonous. But since most of thismovie takes place in a hospital, the killer has lots of props to work with.I've already mentioned the whirlpool bath and the needles. Another particularlynasty gimmick is the intravenous tube. The killer uses it to drain the bloodfrom one of his victims. That's gruesome, but give the filmmakers credit. Theyuse that gimmick to deliver the one scene I've been impatiently expecting foryears and years in gore films: Finally, one of the characters kills himself byslipping on the wet blood and hitting his head on the floor. Sooner or later,it had to happen.