There was a little item inthe paper not long ago that should have been front page news. It was about asurvey reporting that physically handsome men were less successful in business,made less money, married younger, and had less "desirable" spousesthan men of average or below-average looks. The sociologists who announcedthese conclusions speculated that the handsome guys tended to get sidetrackedin high school, spending more time on social life and less time on studies;they tended to depend on their golden boy charm instead of plowing aheadthrough college; and they tended, because they were more sexually active atyounger ages, to marry sooner and therefore to marry women who were looking formarriage rather than careers. On the average, therefore, the weird kid withacne who's president of Chem Club will do better in the long run than the promking. AdvertisementBill Forsyth's “Gregory’s Girl” is a charming,innocent, very funny little movie about the weird kid. It is set in Scotland,where the teenagers are quieter, more civilized and more naive than, let's say,those in “     Class of 1984    .” And it is about Gregory (Gordon John Sinclair), agangling adolescent who has started to shoot up all of a sudden and finds he ishopelessly uncoordinated on the soccer field. Gregory looks sort of like animmensely likable stork. He loses his place on the soccer team to another studentwho is a good deal faster and more coordinated. The other student happens to bea girl. Her name is Dorothy (Dee Hepburn), and Gregory instantly falls deeplyin love with her. Nothing like this has ever hit him before, and romancebecomes for him almost a physical illness. Dorothy is sweet to him, butdistant, because she not only suspects Gregory's feelings but is way ahead ofhim in her analysis of the whole situation.The movie takes place mostly in a pleasantsuburb of Glasgow, where the kids hang about and trade endless speculation onthe impossibility of being sixteen and happy at the same time. Gregory turnsfor romantic advice to his younger sister, who is much more interested in icecream. His sister, in fact, is oblivious to boys, although one pays her anearnest compliment: "She's only ten, but she has the body of a woman ofthirteen." Meanwhile, Gregory consoles his best friend, who is fifteen anda half and has never known love.This movie is a reminder that we tend to forgeta lot of things about adolescence. For example: That it is no use telling ateenager what his faults are, because he is painfully aware of every possiblefault in the minutest detail; that boys are absolutely helpless in the throesof teenage romance, whereas girls tend to retain at least some perspective;that it is an unwritten law of the universe that no sixteen-year-old ever fallsinstantly in love with the right person at the right time.AdvertisementThe movie has a lot of gentle, civilized funwith insights like that. And along the way, Gregory the stork is led on a wildgoose chase with a swan at the end. The movie contains so much wisdom aboutbeing alive and teenaged and vulnerable that maybe it would even be painful fora teenager to see it; it's not much help, when you're suffering from thosefeelings of low self-esteem and an absolutely hopeless crush, to realize thatnot only are you in pain and suffering an emotional turmoil, but you're noteven unique. Maybe only grown-ups should see this movie. You know, people whohave gotten over the pains of unrequited love (hollow laugh).