Ghost stories should alwaysbegin as this one does, in shadows so deep that the flickering light of thedying fire barely illuminates the apprehensive faces of the listeners. Theyshould be told in an old man's voice, dry as dust. They should be listened toby other men who are so old and so rich that we can only guess at the horrorsthey have seen. And, of course, ghost stories should be about things thathappened long ago to young, passionate lovers who committed unspeakable crimesand have had to live forever after with the knowledge of them. If at allpossible, some of the characters should be living in this life, filled withguilt, while others should be living the half-lives of the Undead, filled withhatred and revenge. AdvertisementPeter Straub's best-selling novel Ghost Storycontained all of those elements, and so I plugged away at it for what must havebeen hundreds of pages before his unspeakable prose finally got to me. Atleast, he knows how to make a good story, if not how to tell it, and that isone way in which the book and the movie of “Ghost Story” differ. The movie istold with style. It goes without saying that style is the most important singleelement in every ghost story, since without it even the most ominous eventsdisintegrate into silliness. And “Ghost Story,” perhaps aware that ifcharacters talk too much they disperse the tension, adopts a very economicalstory-telling approach. Dialogue comes in short, straightforward sentences.Background is providedwithout being allowed to distract from the main event. The characters areestablished with quick, subtle strokes. This is a good movie.The story involves four very old men, who haveformed a club to tell each other ghost stories. The casting is crucial here,and the movie's glory is in the performances and presences of     Fred Astaire    , thelate     Melvyn Douglas    , Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., and     John Houseman    . What a crowd.There is also a young protagonist (     Craig Wasson    ),who has a dual role as Fairbanks's twin sons. When one comes to a dreadful end,the other begins to suspect that a mysterious woman may have something to dowith it. And indeed she may. I would not dream of even hinting at exactly whatconnection this young woman (played with creepy charm by     Alice Krige    ) mighthave with the four old men, but of course there is a connection. The movieflashes back fifty or sixty years to establish the connection, but its scariestscenes are in the present. They involve a wonderful haunted house, along-drowned auto, a series of horrendous accidents, a group of ghostlymanifestations, and a truly horrible vengeance wreaked upon the living by thenot-exactly-dead.If you like ghost stories, you will appreciatethat they cannot be told with all sorts of ridiculous skeletons leaping out ofclosets, as in Abbott and Costello. They must be told largely in terms offearful and nostalgic memory, since (by definition) a ghost is a ghost becauseof something that once happened that shouldn't have happened. “Ghost Story” understandsthat, and restrains its performers so that the horror of the ghost is hardlymore transparent than they are.