I saw “Friday The 13th, Part2” at the Virginia Theater, a former vaudeville house in my hometown ofChampaign-Urbana, Illinois. The late show was half-filled with high school andcollege students, and as the lights went down I experienced a brief wave ofnostalgia. In this very theater, on countless Friday nights, I'd gone with adate to the movies. My nostalgia lasted for the first two minutes of the movie.The pretitle sequence showed one of the heroinesof the original “Friday The 13th,” alone at home. She has nightmares, wakes up,undresses, is stalked by the camera, hears a noise in the kitchen. She tiptoesinto the kitchen. Through the open window, a cat springs into the room. Theaudience screamed loudly and happily: It's fun to be scared. Then anunidentified man sunk an ice pick into the girl's brain, and, for me, the funstopped.AdvertisementThe audience, however, carried on. It is atradition to be loud during these movies, I guess. After a batch of youngcounselors turns up for training at a summer camp, a girl goes out walkingalone at night. Everybody in the audience imitated hoot-owls and hyenas.Another girl went to her room and started to undress. Five guys sittingtogether started a chant: "We want boobs!" The plot: In the originalmovie, a summer camp staff was wiped out by a demented woman whose son had beenallowed to drown by incompetent camp counselors. At the end of that film, themother was decapitated by the young woman who is killed with an ice pick at thebeginning of “Part 2.” The legend grows that the son, Jason, did not reallydrown, but survived, and lurks in the woods waiting to take his vengeanceagainst the killer of his mother É and against camp counselors in general, Iguess.That sets up the film. The counselors areintroduced, very briefly, and then some of them go into town for a beer and therest stay at the camp to make out with each other. A mystery assailant prowlsaround the main cabin. We see only his shadow and his shoes. One by one, hepicks off the kids. He sinks a machete into the brain of a kid in a wheelchair.He surprises a boy and a girl making love, and nails them to a bunk with aspear through both their bodies. When the other kids return to the camp, it'stheir turn. After almost everyone has been killed in a disgusting and violentway, one girl chews up the assailant with a chain saw, after which we discoverthe mummies in his cabin in the woods, after which he jumps through a window atthe girl, etc.This movie is a cross between the Mad Slasherand Dead teenager genres; about two dozen movies a year feature a mad killergoing berserk, and they're all about as bad as this one. Some have a littlemore plot, some have a little less. It doesn't matter.Sinking into my seat in this movie theater frommy childhood, I remembered the movie fantasies when I was a kid. They involvedteenagers who fell in love, made out with each other, customized their cars,listened to rock and roll, and were rebels without causes. Neither the kids inthose movies nor the kids watching them would have understood a world view inwhich the primary function of teenagers is to be hacked to death. *This reviewwill suffice for the Friday the 13th film of your choice.Advertisement