Reading the last one hundredpages of John Fowles's “The French Lieutenant’s Woman” is like being caught ina fictional labyrinth. We think we know where we stand in the story, and whothe characters are and what possibilities are open to them, and then Fowles beginsan astonishing series of surprises. He turns his story inside out, suggestingfirst one ending, then another, always in a way that forces us to rethinkeverything that has gone before. That complex structure was long thought tomake Fowles's novel unfilmable. How could his fictional surprises, depending onthe relationship between reader and omniscient narrator, be translated into themore literal nature of film? One of the directors who tried to lick “The FrenchLieutenant’s Woman” wasJohn Frankenheimer, who complained: "There is noway you can film the book. You can tell the same story in a movie, of course,but not in the same way. And how Fowles tells his story is what makes the bookso good." That seemed to be the final verdict, until the British playwrightHarold Pintertackled the project. AdvertisementPinter's previous screenplays, such as “     Accident    ”and “     The Go-Between    ,” are known for a mastery of ambiguity, for a willingnessto approach the audience on more than one level of reality, and what he anddirector     Karel Reisz    have done with their film, “The French Lieutenant’s Woman,”is both simple and brilliant. They have frankly discarded the multi-layeredfictional devices of John Fowles, and tried to create a new cinematic approachthat will achieve the same ambiguity. Fowles made us stand at a distance fromhis two doomed lovers, Sarah and Charles. He told their story, of a passionthat was forbidden by the full weight of Victorian convention, and then heinvited us to stand back and view that passion in terms of facts and statisticsabout, well, Victorian passions in general. Pinter and Reisz create a similardistance in their movie by telling us two parallel stories. In one of them,Sarah Woodruff (     Meryl Streep    ) still keeps her forlorn vigil for the French lieutenantwho loved and abandoned her, and she still plays her intriguing cat-and-mousegame with the obsessed young man (     Jeremy Irons    ) who must possess her.In the other story, set in the present, twoactors named Anna and Mike are playing Sarah and Charles. And Anna and Mike arealso having a forbidden affair, albeit a more conventional one. For the lengthof the movie's shooting schedule, they are lovers offscreen as well as on. Buteventually Mike will return to his family and Anna to her lover.This is a device that works, I think.Frankenheimer was right in arguing that just telling the Victorian love storywould leave you with É just a Victorian love story. The modern framing storyplaces the Victorian lovers in ironic relief. Everything they say and do hasanother level of meaning, because we know the "real" relationshipbetween the actors themselves. Reisz opens his film with a shot that boldlystates his approach: We see Streep in costume for her role as Sarah, attendedby a movie makeup woman. A clapboard marks the scene, and then Streep walksinto the movie's re-creation of the British coastal village of Lyme Regis."It's only a movie," this shot informsus. But, of course, it's all only a movie, including the story about the modernactors. And this confusion of fact and fiction interlocks perfectly with thepsychological games played in the Victorian story by Sarah Woodruff herself.The French lieutenant's woman is one of the mostintriguing characters in recent fiction. She is not only apparently the victimof Victorian sexism, but also (as Charles discovers) its manipulator andmaster. She cleverly uses the conventions that would limit her, as a means ofobtaining personal freedom and power over men. At least that is one way to lookat what she does. Readers of the novel will know there are others.Advertisement“The French Lieutenant’s Woman” is a beautifulfilm to look at, and remarkably well-acted. Streep was showered with praise forher remarkable double performance, and she deserved it. She is offhandedly contemporaryone moment, and then gloriously, theatrically Victorian the next. Opposite her,Jeremy Irons is authoritative and convincingly bedeviled as the man who isfrustrated by both of Streep's characters. The movie's a challenge to ourintelligence, takes delight in playing with our expectations, and has one otherconsiderable achievement as well: It entertains admirers of Fowles's novel, butdoes not reveal the book's secrets. If you see the movie, the book will stillsurprise you, and that's as it should be.