In all the old familiar ways,“The Fox and the Hound” looks like a traditional production fromWalt Disneyanimators. It has cute little animals and wise old owls. It has a villain inthe shape of a mountainous grizzly bear, and comic relief in a long-standingfeud between a woodpecker and a caterpillar. And it has songs that contain suchuncontroversial wishes as, "If only the world wouldn't get in the way, Ifonly the world would let us play." And yet, for all of its familiarqualities, this movie marks something of a departure for the Disney studio, andits movement is in an interesting direction. “The Fox and the Hound” is one ofthose relatively rare Disney animated features that contains a useful lessonfor its younger audiences. It's not just cute animals and frighteningadventures and a happy ending; it's also a rather thoughtful meditation on howsociety determines our behavior. AdvertisementThe movie is a fable about a small puppy namedCopper and an orphaned fox named Tod. At the outset we sense something unusual,after the camera traces a gloomy path through the shadows of the forest, amother fox and her baby come running terrified out of the woods, chased byhunters and hounds. Will the mother and child escape? They almost do. But thenthe mother hides her baby and sacrifices her life to draw attention away fromhim. This is the cruel world, without any magical cartoon escapes.The little fox is taken under the wing, so tospeak, by wise old Big Mama Owl, who arranges for the baby to be adopted by akindly farm woman. It's at this point that the puppy comes into the plot. Puppyand fox become great friends in their childhoods and pledge to be loyal to eachother forevermore. But then the quickly growing hound is taken away to betrained as a hunter, and the next time the two friends meet, the hound issavagely trying to chase down the fox. After they are almost killed by thebear, there is a reconciliation of sorts. They realize (and perhaps the kids inthe audience will realize, too) how quickly our better impulses can be drownedout by the noise of society. The message is not heavy-handed, nor does it needto be, because the lessons in the movie are so firmly illustrated by the livesof the animals.Although “The Fox and the Hound” is the firstDisney animated feature to have been made mostly by a newer generation ofartists at the studio, the film's look still is in the tradition of “TheRescuers” (1977) and other Disney work in the 1970s. That means we don't getthe painstaking, frame-by-frame animation of individual leaves and flowers andbirds that made “Snow White” magical back when animator man-hours were cheaper.But we do get a lot of life and energy on the screen.The star of the movie's sound track is PearlBailey as Big Mama Owl. She sings three songs, dispenses advice with a freehand, and struts around in the forest as a sort of feathered Ann Landers. Theanimators have done a wonderful job of giving their cartoon owl some of PearlieMae's personality traits, but the two leading characters (with     Mickey Rooney    asthe fox and     Kurt Russell    as the hound) are more straightforward.The bottom line, I suppose, is: Will kids likethis movie? And the answer is, sure, I think so. It's a fast-moving, colorfulstory, and as I watched the animated images on the screen, I was suddenlyreminded of a curious belief I held when I was a kid. I believed that cartoonslooked more real than "live" features, because everything on thescreen had sharper edges. I outgrew my notion, but I'm not sure that representsprogress.Advertisement