Somewhere in the middle of “MyDinner With Andre,”Andre Gregorywonders aloud if it's not possible that the1960s were the last decade when we were all truly alive, that since then we'vesunk into a bemused state of self-hypnosis, placated by consumer goods andgiven the illusion of excitement by television. Walking out of “Four Friends,”I had some of the same thoughts. This movie brings the almost unbelievablecontradictions of that decade into sharp relief, not as nostalgia or as are-creation of times past, but as a reliving of all of the agony and freedom ofthe weirdest ten years any of us is likely to witness. AdvertisementThe movie is told in the form of a looseknitautobiography, somewhat inspired by the experiences of     Steve Tesich    , the son ofYugoslavian parents who moved to this country as a boy and lived in theneighborhoods of East Chicago, Indiana, that provide the film's locations. Ifthe film is his emotional autobiography, it is also perhaps the intellectualautobiography of     Arthur Penn    , the film's director, whose “     Bonnie and Clyde    ” wasthe best American film of the 1960s and whose “Alice’s Restaurant” (1969) wasan earlier examination of that wonderful and haunted time.Their movie tells the stories of four friends.When we meet them, they're entering their senior year of high school. It is1961. That is so long ago that nobody has yet heard of The Beatles. One of thefriends is a young woman (Jodi Thelen), who imagines she is the reincarnationof Isadora Duncan, and who strikes attitudes and poses in an attempt to appearaltogether too much of an artistic genius for East Chicago to contain. Theother three friends are male classmates. They all love the girl in one way oranother, or perhaps it's just that they've never seen anyone like her before.In the ten years to follow, these four people will have lives that were notimaginable in 1961. They will have the opportunity to break out of the sedateconservatism of the Eisenhower era and into the decade of "alternativelife-styles." The movie is ambitious. It wants to take us on a tour ofsome of the things that happened in the 1960s, and some of the ways fourmidwestern kids might have responded to them. It also wants to be a meditationon love, and on how love changes during the course of a decade. When Thelenturns up at the bedroom window of her "real" true love (     Craig Wasson    )early in the movie and cheerfully offers to sleep with him, Wasson refuses, notonly because he's a high school kid who's a little afraid of her, but alsobecause he's too much in love with his idea of her to want to make it real. Bythe time they finally do come back together, years later, they've both beenthrough bad scenes, through madness, drug abuse, and the trauma of the war inVietnam. They have also grown up, some. The wonder is not that “Four Friends” coversso much ground, but that it makes many of its scenes so memorable that we learnmore even about the supporting characters than we expect to.There are individual scenes in this movie thatare just right. One of them involves a crowd of kids walking home in the duskafter school. Another happens between Wasson and Miklos Simon, who plays hisgruff, defensive Yugoslavian father, and who finally, painfully, breaks downand smiles after a poker-faced lifetime. A relationship between Wasson and adying college classmate (     Reed Birney    ) is well drawn, to remind us ofundergraduate friendships based on idealism and mutual discovery. And the scenewhere Wasson and Thelen see each other after many years is handled tenderly andwith just the right notes of irony.Advertisement“Four Friends” is a very good movie. Like “BreakingAway,” the story of growing up in Bloomington, Indiana (for which Tesich alsowrote the original screenplay), this is a movie that remembers times past withsuch clarity that there are times it seems to be making it all up. Did wereally say those things? Make those assumptions? Live on the edge of whatseemed to be a society gone both free and mad at once? Some critics have saidthe people and events in this movie are not plausible. I don't know if they'redenying the movie's truth, or arguing that from a 1980s point of view the '60swere just a bad dream. Or a good one.