It's sort of insidious, theway a formula can take over and smother a good idea for a movie. “Fort Apache,The Bronx” apparently began as such an idea. It's said to be based on theexperiences of a couple of real cops in the worst area of New York's Bronx. Thearea looks like a bomb site, with burned-out buildings and people. Thefilmmakers wanted to go into this area and use a police story as a frameworkfor showing how people live and suffer there, and how public agencies such asthe police grow frustrated trying to deal with an impossible situation. That wastheir intention, anyway. What they came out with is the most completecollection of cop-movie clichés sinceJohn Wayneplayed a Chicago cop in “McQ”. AdvertisementThere were authentic perceptions and ideasavailable to this film, and you can see them on the screen. You can see them inthe look of some of the shots, tracking across the urban wasteland, and in thesound and feel of a scene where a pimp beats and berates one of his girls, andthe grim humor of a scene where a thief outruns a cop, who pauses, gasping forbreath, and lights a cigarette.But then there's a story line that keeps gettingin the way. There are too many scenes that are necessary to the plot but not tothe movie, scenes where the life of the movie stops so story details can befilled in. And we realize that somehow Hollywood hasn't wanted to get too closeto this material. Instead, it has borrowed a look of grim authenticity andgrafted it to assorted cop show situations.The movie stars     Paul Newman    . He's good in hisrole, as a cop named Murphy who simultaneously falls in love with a nurse,witnesses his fellow officers committing a murder, and has a battle of willwith his commanding officer. The chief is played by     Edward Asner    , who is in themovie so briefly that, effective as he is, we have trouble remembering he's acop. He's still Lou Grant, barking orders in the sqaud room instead of the cityroom.The movie has several story threads that leadnowhere. One involves     Pam Grier    , as a junkie prostitute who wanders the streetsin a daze, kills a couple of cops, and then turns out to have been basically awalk-on, and not the key to the movie's mysteries. There are also several wholescenes that seem to have been put in without much purpose, including one inwhich Newman and his partner try to talk a transvestite out of jumping off abuilding, and another in which Newman delivers a baby. Then there's a bigclimactic scene, with drug dealers holed up with hostages and the SWAT boys(and Newman, of course) crashing through windows on the ends of ropes.These scenes all seem to be in the movie becausethe filmmakers thought they belonged in any self-respecting cop movie. Too bad.The purely human story in this movie would have been much more interesting. Itinvolves Newman's relationship with the Puerto Rican nurse (wonderfully well-playedby     Rachel Ticotin    ) and the crisis of conscience he goes through about whetherto turn in his fellow officers after he saw them throw a kid off a roof.Do the filmmakers feel we're not ready forissues like that, served straight? Do we need violence and action to keep ourattention? Is our attention span so short that no strand of characterdevelopment can be followed for long without throwing in some kind ofsensational diversion? I hope not. To throw in all the stock characters andshopworn situations from old TV cop shows is an insult to the abilities of theactors and to the real lives this movie pretends to reflect.Advertisement