“For Your Eyes Only” is acompetent James Bond thriller, well-crafted, a respectable product from the 007production line. But it's no more than that. It doesn't have the special slyhumor of theSean ConneryBonds, of course, but also doesn't have the visualsplendor of suchRoger MooreBonds as “The Spy Who Loved Me,” or specialeffects to equal “Moonraker.” And in this era of jolting, inspired visualeffects fromGeorge LucasandSteven Spielberg, it's just not quite in the sameleague. That will no doubt come as a shock to Producer Albert (Cubby) Broccoli,who has made the “James Bond” series his life's work. AdvertisementBroccoli and his late partner,     Harry Saltzman    ,all but invented the genre that Hollywood calls "event films" or"special effects films." The ingredients, which Bond popularized andothers imitated, always included supervillains, sensational stunts, sex, absurdplots to destroy or rule the world, and, of course, a hero. The 007 epics heldthe patent on that formula in the late '60s and early '70s, but they aregrowing dated. “For Your Eyes Only” doesn't have any surprises. We've seen allthe big scenes before, and when the villains turn out to be headquartered in animpregnable mountaintop fortress, we yawn. After “Where Eagles Dare” and “TheGuns Of Navarone” and the hollow Japanese volcano that Bond himself onceinfiltrated, let's face it: When you've seen one impregnable mountaintopfortress, you've seen 'em all.The movie opens with James Bond trapped inside aremote-controlled helicopter being guided by a bald sadist in a wheelchair.After Bond triumphs, the incident is never referred to again. This movieinvolves the loss of the secret British code controlling submarine-basedmissiles. The Russians would like to have it. Bond's mission: Retrieve thecontrol console from a ship sunk in the Aegean. The movie breaks down into aseries of set pieces. Bond and his latest Bondgirl (long-haired,undemonstrative     Carole Bouquet    ) dive in a mini-sub, engage in a complicatedchase through the back roads of Greece, crawl through the sunken wreck in wetsuits, are nearly drowned and blown up, etc. For variety, Bond and Bouquet aredragged behind a powerboat as shark bait, and then Bond scales the fortressmountain. A fortress guard spots Bond dangling from a rope thousands of feet inthe air. What does he do? Does he just cut the rope? No, sir, the guarddescends part way to tantalize Bond by letting him drop a little at a time. Therest is predictable.In a movie of respectable craftsmanship andmoderate pleasures, there's one obvious disappointment. The relationshipbetween Roger Moore and Carole Bouquet is never worked out in an interestingway. Since the days when he was played by Sean Connery, agent 007 has alwayshad a dry, quiet, humorous way with women. Roger Moore has risen to the samechallenge, notably opposite Barbara Bach in “The Spy Who Loved Me.” But Mooreand Bouquet have no real chemistry in “For Your Eyes Only.” There's none ofthat kidding byplay. It's too routine. The whole movie is too routine.Advertisement