The first ten minutes of “TheFinal Conflict” are such a masterful job of storytelling that I dared to hopethat the “The Omen” trilogy had pulled itself out of the bag. The story is toldin images without dialogue. An earth-moving machine in Chicago digs up sevenancient daggers. A workman carries the daggers home and pawns them. An antiquedealer buys the daggers from the pawnshop. They go on auction and areeventually carried to an old monastery in Italy, where the abbot solemnly praysbefore them. These are the daggers, we learn, that are necessary to kill theantichrist. AdvertisementThis is a terrific opening. But, alas, themoment “The Final Conflict” turns to dialogue and a plot, it loses itsinspiration. If Armageddon is as boring as this movie, we'll need a program totell the players. Loyal students of the “The Omen” trilogy will know, ofcourse, that this final conflict has been brewing for a long time, ever since1976, when the original and rather effective “The Omen” was released. In thatone, the U.S. ambassador to Great Britain adopted a child who, we learned, wasthe devil reincarnate. In “Damien: Omen II” (1978), the kid grew up, went to amilitary school, and set the stage for his eventual confrontation with theforces of good. A subplot was introduced, involving Thorne Industries, amultinational conglomerate with plans to dominate mankind by controlling theThird World's food supply. As “The Final Conflict” opens, the adopted son (nowplayed by     Sam Neill    ) is in command of Thorne Industries, and is himself namedambassador to Great Britain, as well as chairman of the United Nations YouthCommittee.He does not make a very good youth chairman.Shortly after moving to England he learns that Christ has been reborn, andorders his flunkies at Thorne to kill all the male children born betweenmidnight and 6 A.M. on the suspected day. That includes the son of his mosttrusted assistant, but so carelessly is this movie assembled that we're neverquite sure if the associate (a) knows and believes his boss is the son ofSatan, (b) is a diabolical creation himself, or (c) is just on the payroll.Somebody on the staff must be in full sympathy with Damien, however, because inthe attic of the U.S. Embassy in London's Berkeley Square he has a room devotedto the Black Mass, including a grotesque wooden effigy of the crucifixion. Ifound myself thinking irreverent thoughts, like, what did they tell the moversas they were carting that crucifix upstairs?So it goes. In addition to its opening sequence,“The Final Conflict” has one other great scene involving a fox hunt and a plotby the priests of the Italian monastery to lure Damien away from the hunt andkill him. This scene is wonderfully staged and edited. But the movie isotherwise a growing disappointment, as we realize that the apocalypticconfrontation between the forces of good and evil is being reduced to a bunchof guys with Italian accents running around trying to stab Damien in the back.I would not, of course, dream of revealing thismovie's ending. But it's not cheating to say how disappointed I was, as Damienslinks through an abandoned cathedral screaming the equivalent of "Come onout, Nazarene! Come out and fight!" And the last scenes are adisappointing anticlimax that raise once again the ancient question: Why isevil always so much more colorful than good in the movies?Advertisement