“Eye of the Needle” resembles nothing so much as one of those downbeat,plodding, quietly horrifying, and sometimes grimly funny war movies that usedto be made by the British film industry, back when there was a British filmindustry. They used to starStanley BakerorTrevor Howard. This one starsDonald Sutherland, as the kind of introverted psychopath who should inhabitonly black-and-white movies, although the color here is sometimes gloomy enoughto suffice. I admired the movie. It is made with quiet competence, and willremind some viewers of the Hitchcock who made “The Thirty-Nine Steps” and “ForeignCorrespondent.” It is about a German spy, the "Needle," who droppedout of sight in Germany in 1938 and now inhabits a series of drabbed-sitting-rooms in England while he spies on the British war effort. He isknown as the Needle because of his trademarked way of killing people by jabbinga stiletto into their rib cages. He kills with a singular lack of passion; thisis Jack the Ripper crossed with J. Alfred Prufrock. As played by Sutherland,the Needle is a very lonely man. We are given hints to explain his isolation:He was raised by parents who did not love him, he was shipped off to boardingschools, he spent parts of his childhood in America, where he learned English.None of these experiences fully explains his ruthlessness, but then perhaps itis just a spy's job to be ruthless. AdvertisementThe plot is part espionage, part cliff-hanger.The Needle discovers phony plywood "airplanes" intended to look, fromthe air, like Patton's invasion force, a ruse to throw off the Germans. Hisassignment is to personally deliver news of the actual Allied invasion plans toHitler. This he intends to do with every fiber of his being, and yet we neverget the feeling that the this man is a patriotic Nazi. He is more of a doggedfunctionary. In his attempts to rendezvous with a Nazi submarine, he'sshipwrecked on an isolated island occupied only by a lighthouse-keeper and by ayoung married couple, a woman (     Kate Nelligan    ), her legless husband (ChristopherCazenove), and their son. The last third of the movie turns into a bloodymelodrama, as the Needle kills the husband and the lighthouse-keeper andthreatens the woman, first in a psychological way and then with violence. Butbefore the final standoff, he pretends to be merely a lost sailor. And thewoman, frustrated by her husband's drunkenness and refusal to love, becomesattracted to the stranger. They make love. She grows fond of him. Does he growfond of her? We can never be sure, but he tells her things he has told to noone else.Some people will find the movie slow going. Ipreferred to think of it as deliberate. It is effective, I think, to develop aplot like this at a deliberate pace, instead of rushing headlong through it.That gives us time to meditate on the character of the Needle, and to ponderhis very few, enigmatic references to his own behavior. We learn things abouthim that he may not even know about himself, and that is why the film's finalscene is so much more complex than it seems. "The war has come down to thetwo of us," Sutherland tells Nelligan, and in the final exchange ofdesperate looks between the man and the woman there is a whole universe leftunspoken. The movie ends with Nelligan regarding a man who is either atreacherous spy or an unloved child, take your choice.