What a wondrous vision “Excalibur”is! And what a mess. This wildly ambitious retelling of the legend of KingArthur is a haunting and violent version of the Dark Ages and the heroicfigures who (we dream) populated them. But it's rough going for anyonedetermined to be sure what is happening from scene to scene. Great armoredfigures clank through the forest and bury broadaxes in each other's bodies.Young Arthur frees the magic sword Excalibur from the granite boulder where itwas embedded. Castles are stormed. Arthur marries Guenevere and the kingdomrejoices. Camelot reigns. Merlin the Magician enters into a doomed pact withMorgana, Arthur's half-sister, and Morgana assumes the appearance of Guenevereto seduce Arthur. She plans for their son born of incest, Mordred, to take hisplace as king. AdvertisementAnd all of this is buried in such a wealth ofdetail, such an impenetrable atmosphere, such tumultuous alarms and excursions,that the audience is quite likely to lose its place.     John Boorman    , the directorof “Excalibur,” is brilliant at staging the life and times of Arthur, the filmis a triumph of production design, costumes, and special effects. But he hasn'thammered out a clear story line. His male characters, bearded and hiding withinmedieval helmets, sometimes look and sound like one another. If RobertBresson's “Lancelot Of The Lake” (1973) deliberately made all the knights intointerchangeable, clanking clones, Boorman seems to have arrived at the sameplace inadvertently. This is a film we almost have to squint to see and tounderstand.As a panorama of sword and sorcery, however, itis very beautiful to watch. And as a showcase for Nicol Williamson's Merlin, itis sometimes a lot of fun; Williamson plays the magician as a medieval NoelCoward, always armed with the wry witticism. His relationship with Morgana (thelovely     Helen Mirren    ) is actually the most interesting thing in the film.Morgana borrows Merlin's magic to deceive Arthur and to stay young. Inhabitinga dragon's cave that is apparently somewhere beneath Camelot, she wears brassbrassieres and other obligatory props, but she's intriguing.It's curious how our tastes in myth change;heroes seem to be devalued and our fascination is with villains. Arthur almostrecedes into the scenery toward the end of “Excalibur,” upstaged by the sins ofLancelot, the schemes of Morgana, the arch amusement of Merlin and, finally, bythe astonishing appearance of Mordred, who wears a golden helmet that makes himinto a muscular Cupid. “Excalibur” is a revisionist view of what Arthur'speople and times looked like. But the film has a tendency to drift into softfocus and impenetrable fogs. Many scenes are shot through filters that softenand dissipate their effect. The movie's very last shot, of a ship plunging outto sea, should have been hard-edged and forlorn, but it's all misty andevanescent.AdvertisementThere is another problem, too: one common notonly to many movie versions of Arthurian legends, but epidemic in the modernsword-and-sorcery genre. The people in this film seem doomed to their behavior.They have no choice. Arthur is courageous as a youth, but then presides overthe disintegration of the Round Table, for no apparent reason. The brave andpure Lancelot, accused of being Guenevere's lover, engages in a deadly joust todefend her honor. Not much later, however, they make love. Merlin is a greatand powerful magician, but allows Morgana to outwit him; he seems to decidefrom moment to moment whether to possess vast powers or none.Since there is no consistency in the behavior ofthe characters, “Excalibur” is maddeningly arbitrary. Anyone is likely to doanything, and when they do, Boorman springs another battle scene on us, withhorses whinnying and swords thumping into flesh until the novelty wears thin.One of the joys of “Star Wars,” which is really a sword-and-sorcery fantasy ofthe future, is that everyone plays by the rules, lives by the Force, and istrue to himself. Boorman's “Excalibur” is a record of the comings and goings ofarbitrary, inconsistent, shadowy, figures who are not heroes but simply giantsrun amok. Still, it's wonderful to look at.