I'd like to think the DarkAges looked something like “Dragonslayer” all fearsome and muddy and overcastmost of the time, and that their inhabitants walked around in a constant stateof fear that something unspeakably evil was just about to eat off their ear. “Dragonslayer”’svision is more convincing than the Dark Ages created byJohn Boormanin “Excalibur,”with everybody riding around in suits of armor that wouldn't be invented foranother seven hundred years.The real Dark Ages must have been a time ofignorance, tyranny, and superstition. And its heroes must have been somethinglike the two young heroes of “Dragonslayer,”     Peter MacNicol    and Caitlin Clarke,both looking about fifteen years old. In a time of disease, plague, andepidemic, fifteen was old.AdvertisementHere is a movie with the courage to be grungy.Dragons live in smelly lairs deep beneath crumbling mountains, and to reachthem you have to cross lakes of fire and somehow avoid being eaten alive bylittle baby dragons. The mission in this movie is a simple one, as allfairy-tale missions must be: Galen, a young sorcerer's apprentice (MacNicol)must travel to a faraway kingdom and kill a fearsome dragon who holds thecountryside under its fiery scorn. The ruler of the kingdom has meanwhileinstituted some stopgap measures. He holds a lottery every year involving allthe virgins in his kingdom, and the unlucky virgin who loses the lottery issacrificed to the dragon. Galen, the dragonslayer, vows to save the virgins bykilling the dragon. (There are easier ways of saving a girl from beingsacrificed as a virgin, but they didn't call these the Dark Ages for nothing.)Before he leaves on his mission, Galen is inspired by the grave words andmagical death of his teacher, Ulrich the Sorcerer (     Ralph Richardson    , in anabsolutely wonderful performance). On his way to the far-off kingdom, he meetsa youth named Valerian (Caitlin Clarke), who turns out to be a girl disguisedas a boy so that she can avoid being drafted in the lottery.The scenes involving the dragon are first-rate.The beast is one of the meanest, ugliest, most reprehensible creatures I'veever seen in a film, and when it breathes flames it looks like it's reallybreathing flames. Its lair, its flaming lake, and its monstrous attacks on thepopulation are also well handled. The real star of the movie, indeed, is theproduction designer, Elliott Scott, who created the look of this world. (Thespecial effects were produced at Industrial Light and Magic Inc., which isGeorge Lucas's shop in Marin County, California.)If the movie has a flaw it is in MacNicol'sperformance, which is so feckless, cheerfully adolescent, and untextured thathe could almost be a surfer caught in a time warp. MacNicol isn't bad in therole, mind you, just awfully cheeky. But then maybe dragonslaying is a youngman's trade, and when you grow old and wise and have a long beard and are thesorcerer, you've learned enough to send your apprentice to kill the dragon.