Here is a movie that is supposed to be about a newspaperman--acolumnist for the Chicago Sun-Times, in fact--who is like no newspaperman Iknow, but exactly like every newspaperman would like to be. In my opinion, thatmakes it accurate. "Continental Divide" starsJohn Belushias thejournalist, obviously inspired by Mike Royko. He likes to walk along thelakeshore with the towers of the city outlined behind him against the lonelysky at dusk, a notebook stuck in his pocket and a cigarette stuck in his mug,on his way to rendezvous with stoolie aldermen and beautiful women. Advertisement The movie takes this character, played by Belushi with asurprising tenderness and charm, and engages him in an absolute minimum ofnewspaper work before spiriting him off to the Rocky Mountains for what themovie is really about, a romance with an eagle expert. The movie opens as ifit's going to be a tough Chicago slice-of-life, with Belushi getting tips froman insider about city graft and payola, but then the columnist is beaten up bya couple of cops on an alderman's payroll. The managing editor suggests thismight be a good time for Belushi to spend a few weeks out of town, and so thecolumnist heads for the Rockies to get an interview with a mysterious andbeautiful woman (Blair Brown) who has generated worldwide curiosity by becominga hermit to spy on the habits of bald eagles. Thewhole center section of the movie takes place in the mountains, and if nothingvery original happens there, we are at least reminded of several beloved moviecliches that seemed, until this film, to belong exclusively in the comediesthatKatharine HepburnandSpencer Tracyused to make together. After the cityslicker Belushi crawls wearily up a mountainside (losing his booze andcigarette supply in the process), he meets the beautiful birdwatcher and fallsinstantly in love. She's having none of it. She's one of those independentwomen who marches from crag to aerie in her L.L. Bean boots and designerwardrobe. BecauseBelushi's grizzled mountain guide already has disappeared down the mountain,the two of them are destined to spend the next two weeks together in a cabin.This sets up a classic situation in which the girl talks tough but starts tofall for the big lunkhead. And there are the obligatory switches on male-femaleroles as Brown climbs mountains and Belushi stays home and makes goulash.Occasionally, a mountain lion attacks. Thisall sounds predictable, of course, and yet this movie's predictability is oneof its charms. It's rare these days to find a film that is basically content tobe about a colorful man and an eccentric woman who are opposites and yet fallmadly in love. It is even rarer to find a movie cast with performers who areoffbeat and appealing and do not have obvious matinee-idol appeal. Belushi'scharacter in this movie is quite unlike his self-destructive slob in"National Lampoon's Animal House" it shows the gentleness andvulnerability that made him so appealing in some of Second City's quieterskits. Advertisement Brownis also a revelation. She has been in several other movies without attracting agreat deal of attention, but here she is unmistakably and wonderfully a star, atousled-haired, big-eyed warm person who does not project sex appeal so much aswarmth and humor. In other words, she has terrific sex appeal. Oneof Belushi's special qualities was always an underlying innocence. Maybe hecreated his Blues Brothers persona in reaction to it. He's an innocent in thismovie, an idealist who's a little kid at heart and who wins the love of Brown notby seducing her but by appealing to her protective qualities. That's the secretof the character's appeal. We're cheering for the romance because Belushi makesus protective, too, and we want him to have a woman who'd be good for him. Whatabout the movie's view of journalism? It's really just a romanticized backdrop,“The Front Page” crossed with "Lou Grant" and modernized with acomputerized newsroom. The newspaper scenes in the movie were shot on locationin the Sun-Times features department, and one of the quietly amusing thingsabout "Continental Divide's" view of newspaper life is that in themovie it's more sedate and disciplined than the real thing. In the"real" Sun-Times features department, there's a lot of informalityand chaos and good-natured confusion and people shouting at one another andeating lunch at their desks. In the movie, the extras (recruited from theSun-Times staff) forget about real life and sit dutifully at their videodisplay terminals, grinding out the news. Thenewspaper's managing editor is played byAllen Goorwitz, a gifted characteractor who usually plays manic overcompensators, but who this time isreasonable, calm, civilized, compassionate, and understanding, just like myboss. The movie's city of Chicago is populated by colorful old newsstandoperators, muggers who apologize before taking your watch, and city councilbosses who make sure their shady deals don't get into the official transcript.The newsies and muggers are fiction. The movie itself is fun: goofy, softhearted,fussy, sometimes funny, and with the sort of happy ending that columnists liketo find for their stories and hardly ever find themselves. Advertisement