If there is one central imagein the work ofFederico Fellini, it's of Fellini's autobiographical hero beingsmothered by women. They come in all shapes and ages, from old crones to younginnocents, from heavy-breasted mother figures to seductive nymphs. One ofFellini's favorite strategies is to gather all the women into one fantasy andplace his hero at the center of it. That's what he did in the celebrated haremsequence in "8 1/2," and that's what he does throughout “City of Women.”There is, however, an additional twist thistime. Since the basic Fellini universe was created in “     La Strada    ,” “La DolceVita,” “8 1/2,” and “     Juliet of the Spirits    ” (1965), beliefs about the role ofwomen have undergone a revolution, even in Italy. It is no longer enough that Fellinideal with the ways women tantalize, dominate, and possess his male heroes. Nowhe must also deal with the women themselves. For Fellini, this is probably notnearly so much fun. His idea of a liberated woman is fairly clear from thewife-character in “8 1/2” (1963). She is severe, wears tailored suits andhorn-rim glasses, and wants to spoil all the fun. Fellini's hero, in that filmand in “City of Women,” is named Guido, is played by     Marcello Mastroianni    , andwants to escape from the horn-rim types and lose himself in the capacious bosomof a thoroughly undemanding sex object.AdvertisementAt the beginning of “City of Women,” however,Guido finds himself riding on a train across from a severe-looking woman in atailored suit. He tries to seduce her. She sentences him to an imaginaryodyssey through a series of sexual fantasies, most of them devoted to theunpleasant fates of men who do not have the correct attitude about women. Mostof these fantasies, and indeed many of the specific images, are familiar to anyonewho has seen several Fellini films. There is a long circus chute forMastroianni to tumble down (“Juliet”), and a group of circus scenes (from halfhis other films), and a wall covered with portraits (remember “Fellini’s Roma”?),and an insatiable satyr, and, of course, the full-lipped, full-bosomed,smiling, and inexhaustible temptress who turns up, in one manifestation oranother, throughout Fellini.“City of Women” does nothing original or verychallenging with this material. Although it pretends to be Fellini's film aboutfeminism, it reveals no great understanding of the subject; Fellini basicallysees feminists as shrill harems of whip-wielding harridans, forever danglingthe carrot of sex just out of reach of his suffering hero. Fellini has rarely beenable to discover human beings hidden inside his female characters, and it's alittle late for him to start blaming that on the women's liberationmovement.Is “City of Women” worth seeing? Yes, probably,even though it is not a successful movie and certainly not up to Fellini's bestwork. It's worth seeing because it's a bedazzling collection of images, becauseat times it's a graceful and fluid celebration of pure filmmaking skill, andbecause Fellini can certainly make a bad film but cannot quite make a boringone.