It's supposed to be cheating to make an admission like that. Imyself believe that it is a film's form, more than its message, that makes itgreat. And yet "Tribute" is not a visually distinguished film. It hasbeen directed, byBob Clark, as a straightforward job of work. There are longsequences that are obviously just filmed scenes from Bernard Slade's originalstage play. Yet the characters transcend these limitations and become peoplethat we care about. The film is mostly Jack Lemmon's, and he deserved his seventhAcademy Award nomination for his performance as Scottie Templeton, the movie'shero. We all know somebody like Scottie--if we are not, God forbid, a littlelike Scottie ourselves. He's a wisecracking, popular guy with hundreds ofdeeply intimate passing acquaintances. He also has a few friends. One of themis his business partner (John Marley) and another is his ex-wife (Lee Remick).They love him and stand by him, but he can't allow himself to reveal how muchthat means to him. He is also hurt by his relationship with his son (RobbyBenson), who has the usual collection of post-adolescent grudges against his father.All of these relationships suddenly become much more important when Scottiediscovers he is dying. The movie begins at about that point in Scottie's life,and examines how the fact of approaching death changes all of Scottie's ways ofdealing with the living. Advertisement Hisson comes home to visit for a few weeks. His ex-wife returns to New York for acollege reunion and stays to become involved in the crisis. The friend, Marley,acts as counsel and adjudicator. Other characters pass through, including ayoung woman (Kim Cattrall) who Scottie thinks would be ideal for his son (afterall, she'd previously been ideal for Scottie himself). Veteran playgoers canalready predict the obligatory scenes growing out of this situation. Scottiewill be brave at first, then angry, then depressed, then willing to reach outto his son, and finally reconciled to his fate. Scottie's friends will rallyaround. His son will learn to love the old man. Everybody will become morehuman and sensitive, and the possibility of death will provide an occasion fora celebration of life. Et cetera. What'samazing is that when these predictable situations appear, the movie makes themwork. A great deal of the credit for that belongs to Lemmon and Benson. Theyare both actors with a familiar schtick by now: Benson trembling with emotions,Lemmon fast-talking his way into sincerity. In "Tribute", though, themovie's characters are so close to the basic strengths of Lemmon and Bensonthat everything seems to work. TakeLemmon, for example. Another actor, playing Scottie Templeton, might simplyseem to be saying funny lines, alternating with bittersweet insights. Lemmonmakes us believe that they're not lines; they're the way this guy talks. Thebig emotional changes take place underneath the surface wisecracks, making themall the more poignant.Robby Bensonsometimes comes across as too vulnerable,almost affected in his sensitivity. Here, he's good, too: Examine the earlyscene where his father asks what the hell's going on, and Benson begins, "Letme try to explain about that ..." with touching formality. Maybeyour reaction to "Tribute" will depend on your state of mind. I knowpeople who say they "saw through it," dismissing it as merely awell-made play. I know others, myself included, who were really touched by it.Perhaps the film works better because it's willing to be a bittersweet soapopera. Life itself, after all, is rarely a great directorial achievement, butalmost always seems to work on the melodramatic level.