"SupermanII" begins in midstream, and never looks back (aside from a brief recap ofthe first movie). In many ways, it's a repeat of the last ninety minutes of thefirst film. It has the same key characters, including archvillain Lex Luthor. Itcontinues the love story of Lois Lane and Superman, not to mention the strangerelationship of Lois and Clark Kent. It features the return of three villainsfrom Krypton, who when last seen were trapped in a one-dimensional plane oflight and cast adrift in space. And it continues those remarkable specialeffects. Advertisement Fromhis earliest days in a comic book, Superman always has been an urban hero. Helived in a universe that was defined by screaming banner headlines and vastsymbolic acts, and Superman II catches that flavor perfectly with its use offamous landmarks like the Eiffel Tower, the Empire State Building, NiagaraFalls, and the Coca-Cola sign in Times Square. He was a pop hero in a popworld, and like Mickey Mouse and the original Coke trademark, he became an instantlyrecognizable trademark.That's why the special effects in both Superman movies are so crucial. It is agreat deal simpler to show a rocket ship against the backdrop of outer spacethan to show Kryptonian villains hurling a city bus through the air in midtownManhattan. But the feeling of actuality makes Superman's exploits more fun. Itbrings the fantastic into our everyday lives; it delights in showing us thereaction of the man on the street to Superman's latest stunt. In the movie, asin the comic book, ordinary citizens seem to spend their days glued to thesidewalk, gazing skyward, and shouting things like "Superman isdead!" or "Superman has saved the world!"In "Superman II" he saves large portions of the world, all right, butwhat he preserves most of all is the element of humanity within him. TheSuperman movies made a basic decision to give Superman and his alter ego, ClarkKent, more human feelings than the character originally possessed. So"Superman II" has a lot of fun developing his odd dual relationshipwith Lois Lane. At long, long last, Lois and Superman make love in this movie(after champagne, but discreetly offscreen in Superman's ice palace). But Loisand Clark Kent also spend the night together in highly compromised circumstances,in a Niagara Falls honeymoon haven.And the movie has fun with another one of those ultimate tests that Lois wasalways throwing at Clark to make him admit he was really Superman. Lois betsher life on it this time, hurling herself into the rapids below Niagara Falls.Either Clark can turn into Superman and save her -- or she'll drown. And whatthen? All I can say is, Clark does not turn into Superman.This scene has a lot of humor in it, and the whole film has more smiles andlaughs than the first one. Maybe that's because of a change in directors. RichardDonner, who made the first "Superman" film and did a brilliant job ofestablishing a basic look for the series, was followed this time by RichardLester ("A Hard Day's Night," "The Three Musketeers"),and this is some of Lester's best work. He permits satire to make its way intothe film more easily. He has a lot of fun withGene Hackman, as thestill-scheming, thin-skinned, egomaniacal Lex Luthor. And he draws out ChristopherReeve, whose performance in the title role is sly, knowing, and yet stillappropriately square.This movie's most intriguing insight is that Superman's disguise as Clark Kentisn't a matter of looks as much as of mental attitude: Clark is disguised notby his glasses but by his ordinariness. Beneath his meek exterior, of course,is concealed a superhero. And, the movie subtly hints, isn't that the case withus all?