There are other complications.Sigourney Weaveris engaged to anIsraeli agent (Christopher Plummer) who is involved in secret internationalnegotiations to smuggle Jews out of the Soviet Union. His plan involvesclandestine payments to a Vietnamese agent who got rich on the black market inSaigon and has now moved to Manhattan. The other characters include JamesWoods, as Hurt's eccentric and unpredictable fellow janitor, andSteven HillandMorgan Freemanas a couple of cops who wearily track down leads in the case(their best line: "When Aldo was a little boy, he must have wanted to growup to be a suspect"). Advertisement The development and solution of the murder mystery are handledwith professional dispatch by Yates and his writer,Steve Tesich(who alsowrote "Breaking Away"). A final shoot-out in a midtown riding stablehas a touch of Hitchcock to it; the old master always loved to mix violence withabsolutely inappropriate settings. But what makes this movie so entertaining isthe way Yates and Tesich and their characters play against our expectations. Examples.Weaver is not only a TV newswoman, but also a part-time serious pianist and theunhappy daughter of her domineering parents. Hurt is not only a janitor butalso a sensitive soul who can talk his way into Weaver's heart. Woods is notonly a creepy janitor but also the enthusiastic promoter of a marriage betweenhis sister and Hurt. Hurt and the sister (Pamela Reed) carry on the courtshipbecause they are both too embarrassed to tell the other one they're not inlove. Plummer is the most complicated character of all, and it's a very goodquestion whether he's a villain. It all depends on how you view his ownpersonal morality. I'veseen so many thrillers that, frankly, I don't always care how they turn out —unless they're really well-crafted. What I like about "Eyewitness" isthat, althought it does care how it turns out, it cares even more about the textureof the scenes leading to the denouement. There's not a scene in this movie thatexists only to provide us with plot information. Every scene developscharacters. And they're developed in such offbeat fidelity to the way people dobehave that we get all the more involved in the mystery, just because, foronce, we halfway believe it could really be happening.