“Taps” is a meditation on twosubjects for which some adolescents have a great capacity: idealism andauthoritarianism. It takes place in a realistic setting (it was shot onlocation at Valley Forge Military Academy), but it is not intended as arealistic film. There are all sorts of clues, including the pointed absence ofall but one of the academy's adult faculty members, to indicate that TAPS, likethe emotionally similar “Lord Of The Flies,” is using its realistic texture asa setting for a fantasy about human nature. AdvertisementThe film begins with an emotionally stirringcommencement exercise at Bunker Hill Military Academy (as the school is calledin the film). Sousa marches fill the air, the cadets march around the paradeground looking gloriously proud of themselves, and the reviewing stand isdominated by the legendary old General Harlan Bache, the academy's commander.Bache is played by     George C. Scott    , and it is probably no accident that hisperformance in this movie echoes his title role in “     Patton    ” (1970): He is aniron-willed and yet incurably romantic professional soldier.We soon meet the leading upperclassman, BrianMoreland (     Timothy Hutton    ). He has been selected to lead the cadet corps nextyear. In one of the most important evenings of his life, he is granted thegreat privilege of having dinner with old General Bache and sipping some of theold man's brandy. Soon after, however, this whole network of discipline, glory,and tradition is destroyed when it's revealed that the school's pigheadedtrustees intend to sell the school and its land to some condominium developers(it is almost worth the price of admission to hear Scott pronounce"condominiums"). Bache is removed from the scene, in a dramaticdevelopment I will not reveal. And then Moreland, the cadet commander, takesinventory of the school's supplies of weapons and decides to lead the studentbody in making a stand for it. They'll take over the school in a militaryoccupation, bar the gates, mount machine guns, and guard posts, and issue a setof demands designed to save the school.The central passages of “Taps” are devoted tothis scheme. The students barricade themselves in the school grounds, thepolice and National Guard surround the school, and a standoff develops.Meanwhile, within the student body, tensions develop between those kids who areunstable and a little too violent, and those who would secretly rather be onthe outside looking in. Hutton, as Moreland, does a lot of learning andsoul-searching as he tries to hold his mad scheme together.There are obviously variousproblems of plot (such as: Where are the other faculty members? Why are theoutside authorities both so stupid and so uncompromising? Why would thetrustees have no appreciation of the school's tradition? Why would thegrade-school-age cadets be issued live ammunition?, etc.). These questions donot really matter. “Taps” is basically a character study, a portrait of thepersonalities engaged in the showdown. And, like “Lord Of The Flies”, itobserves that adolescent males can easily translate the idealistic lessons theyhave been taught into a rationale for acting in ways that are rigid, dogmatic,and self-justifying. Advertisement“Taps” works as an uncommonly engrossing story,primarily because the performances are so well done. All of the cadet roles arewell acted, not only by seasoned actors like Hutton (who won an Academy Awardfor “     Ordinary People    ”) but even by the very young kids who struggle with gunsand realities much too large for them. By the film's end, we share their lovefor their school, we despair at the situation they have gotten themselves into,and we are emotionally involved in the outcome. After the film, there are someideas to think about, involving the implications when might and right are onthe same side--and when they are not.