Richard Pearce's "Heartland" is a big, robust, joyous movie about people who make other movie heroes look tentative. It takes place in 1910, out in the unsettled frontier landsof Wyoming, and it's about a determined young widow who packs up her daughter and moves out West to take a job as the housekeeper on a ranch. At first she is completely baffled by the rancher who has hired her ("I can't talk about anything with that man"), but in the end she marries him and digs in to fight an endless battle with the seasons, the land, and the banks.Advertisement A movie newcomer namedConchata Ferrellplays the widow, Elinore Randall. She's a big-boned,clear-eyed, wide-hipped woman of about thirty who makes us realize that most ofthe women in Westerns look as if they're about to collapse under the strain.She is extremely clear about her motivations. She gives a full day's work for afull day's pay, but she is tired of working for others, and would like to ownher own land someday. She does not, however, speak endlessly about her beliefsand ambitions, because Heartland is a movie of few words. That is partlybecause of the character of Clyde Stewart (Rip Torn), the rancher she goes towork for. He hardly ever says anything. He is a hard man, a realist who knowsthat the undisciplined Western land can break his back. But he is not unkind,and in the scene where he finally proposes to marry her, his choice of wordscontains understated wit that makes us smile.Everything in this movie affirms life. Perhapsthat is why Heartland can also be so unblinking in its consideration of death.The American West was not settled by people who spent all their time bakingpeach cobbler and knitting samplers, and this movie contains several scenesthat will shock some audiences because of their forthright realism. We see apig slaughtered, a calf birthed, cattle skinned, and a half-dead horse left outin the blizzard because there is simply nothing to feed it.All of Heartland is stunningly photographed onand around a Montana ranch. (The movie is based on the real life of a settlernamed Elinore Randall Stewart.) It contains countless small details of farminglife, putin not for "atmosphere" but because they work better than dialogueto flesh out the characters. The desolation of the frontier is suggested insmall vignettes, such as one involving a family that could get this far and nofarther, and lives huddled inside a small wagon. Among the many scenes thatdelight us with their freshness is one moment right after the wedding, whenFerrell realizes she got married wearing her apron and work boots, and anotherwhen she is about to give birth and her husband rides off into the storm tofetch the midwife from the next farm. We settle back here in anticipation ofthe obligatory scene in which the midwife arrives and immediately orderseveryone to boil hot water, lots of it but this time we're surprised. Thehusband returns alone; the midwife was not at her farm. Quiet little developmentslike that help expose the weight of clichés that holds down most Westerns.In a movie filled with wonderful things, thevery best thing in Heartland is Conchata Ferrell's voice. It is strong,confident, clear as a bell, and naturally musical. It is a fine instrument,bringing authenticity to every word it says. It puts this movie to a test,because we could not quite accept that voice saying words that sounded phonyand contrived. In Heartland, we never have to.Advertisement