“Porky’s” is another raunchyteenage sex-and-food-fight movie. The whole genre seems fixated on the late1950s and early 1960s, when the filmmakers, no doubt, were teenagers. Dotoday's teenagers really identify with jokes about locker rooms, Trojans,boobs, jockstraps, killer-dyke gym coaches, and barfing? Well, yes, probably theydo. Teenagers seem to occupy a time warp of eternally unchangingpreoccupations. Hollywood originally entered that world with a certaininnocence in the late 1950s with Pat Boone and beach party movies. Thatinnocence is now long, long ago. Since “American Graffiti,” “National Lampoon’sAnimal House,” and “Meatballs,” the A.C.N.E.S. movie has turned cynical. Youremember what A.C.N.E.S. stands for. It's an acronym for any movie about thedreaded Adolescent Character's Neurotic Eroticism Syndrome. AdvertisementIn “Porky’s”, the male characters are neuroticabout the usual three subjects: the size, experience, and health of theirreproductive organs. The female characters, on the other hand, are seen almostentirely as an undiscovered species from a lost continent. They're whisperedabout, speculated about, spied upon, victimized, and, in general, feared. Andit's not only Ms. Balbricker, the juggernaut gym coach, who's a heavy. All ofthe women in this movie are weird. One howls like a dog during sexualintercourse. Others lure unsuspecting horny teenage boys into rooms withtrapdoors, and dump them into alligator-infested waters.In fact, the strangest thing about “Porky’s” ishow much it hates women. The only close friendships in the movie are betweenmen. The movie even takes certain scenes that are usually cliches for femalecharacters and assigns them to men. For example, you can hardly make a movielike this without a scene in which someone's caught nude in public. Remember"Hot Lips" in “MASH”? In “Porky’s,” it's a kid named Pee Wee. He'scaught with his pants down, chased into the woods, picked up by the cops, anddeposited at the local drive-in hamburger stand, where he poses like SeptemberMorn.Since the movie doesn't like women, its sexscenes all create fear and hostility, which prevents them from being funny (sexscenes about fear and hostility, on the other hand, can be very funny). Even inan easy scene like the one where the guys spy on the girls in the locker room,the director,     Bob Clark    , blows it. Peeping Tom scenes can be very funny(remember     John Belushi    on the ladder in “Animal House?”) Here, it's justsmarmy. There's one other problem. None of the male actors in this movie look,sound, or act like teenagers. They all look like overgrown preppies at theirfraternity pledge class's fifth reunion. Jokes based on embarrassment neverwork unless we can identify with the embarrassed character. Here, the actorsall seem to be just acting.I see that I have neglected to summarize theplot of “Porky’s.” And I don't think I will. I don't feel like writing one moresentence (which is, to be sure, all it would take).Advertisement