“Eureka” is a strange,perverse film about passion and greed, and it leads us through a labyrinthinestory to a simple message: Money can't buy you love. It starsGene Hackmanasan obsessed gold prospector in the Yukon, who screams into the wind that hewill "never make a nickel off another man's sweat." He stalks outinto a blizzard, almost freezes to death, and then is saved through thesupernatural intervention of a fortune-teller (Helena Kalianiotes). Shearranges for him to find the mother lode and become the richest man in the world. AdvertisementWe then flash forward to the 1930s, when helives on his own Caribbean island. He should be a man without worries, but heis desperately unhappy because his beloved daughter (     Theresa Russell    ) hasmarried a scheming playboy (     Rutger Hauer    ). While monsoons blow and parrotssquawk, he bans Hauer from his table and vows to see him dead. "At first Ithought you wanted my daughter. Then I thought you wanted my gold,"Hackman screams at him. "Now I think you want my soul." He is right,but there is a battle over that soul, and the other contestant is the daughterherself. The film's director,     Nicolas Roeg    , says he has friends who seem to bethe soul-clones of their parents, and apparently the closing passages of “Eureka”are meant to be seen with that notion in mind. Meanwhile, there are so manyother notions to keep in mind that the film all but sinks under the weight ofits inspiration.Roeg is a fascinating director. Remember some ofhis films: “     Walkabout    ,” “Don’t Look Now,” “     Performance    ,” “The Man Who Fell toEarth,” “Bad Timing.” They almost all seem to deal with supernaturalintervention in the affairs of man, and with the way those mysteries gettangled up with the bedsheets. His films are also a visual feast; Roeg, aformer editor, loves to construct complicated fantasies out of images andmemories, shocks and beautiful meditations,Straightforward storytelling is not his strongpoint. But so what? The basic facts of “Eureka” (man strikes gold, becomesrich, grows old and jealous, suffers for greed) are familiar from     Jack London    ,Edgar Allan Poe, and von Stroheim's “     Greed    .” What Roeg brings to the party is aflair for the sensational, for characters who are larger than their weaknesses,who are connected to great archetypal forces. Hackman is wonderful here, withthe intensity of his obsessions, and once again Russell (still only in hermid-twenties) is brilliant; in some ways this is her movie, and she stealsscenes from everybody except, sometimes, Hackman. If “Eureka” is not completelysuccessful if, indeed, it is sometimes merely silly and often confusing, maybethat's the price we pay for Roeg's intensity. At least it is never boring.