The movie's about a biginternational competition in San Francisco among six world-class pianists whoare fighting for a $20,000 first prize and a two-year concert contract. Themovie has two counterpoints to its main theme. One involves a love affairbetween two of the finalists,Richard DreyfussandAmy Irving. The other one,ridiculous but forgivable, involves a Russian piano teacher who defects to theUnited States, creating an international incident that causes the competitionto be postponed a week. AdvertisementBoth of these story lines are somehowtime-honored, once we realize that The Competition is not intended as a deadlyserious treatise on big-league pianists, but as an offbeat love story. Dreyfussand Amy Irving have a real charm and rapport as the two lovers, especially inthe scenes where they argue that love has absolutely no place in a piano competitionnot if it's being used as a psychological weapon to undermine one of thecompetitors. That's exactly what Amy Irving's piano coach (     Lee Remick    ) thinksthe dastardly Dreyfuss is trying to do.There are three areas that the movie gets into,superficially but earnestly. One has to do with the competition itself with theidea of artists competing with one another. Another has to do withrelationships between men and women: Will the love affair between Amy andRichard be destroyed if she should win? How will his fragile male ego be ableto take that? The third has to do with the idea of the artist's career, and hereRemick has several good scenes and intelligently written speeches, as she triesto explain the realities of a concert career to Irving.There is, of course, a lot of music in thismovie, in addition to all the scenes of romance, backstage butterflies, internationalintrigue, and self-examination. And The Competition does an extraordinary jobof persuading us that the actors are really playing their own pianos. They'renot. Stay for the credits if you want the names of the real pianists on thesound track. But Dreyfuss, Irving, and the rest really look as if they'replaying, and it took them four months of daily rehearsal to learn to fake it sowell.AdvertisementThe Competition isn't a great movie, but it's awarm, entertaining one. It has the nerve to tell a story about serious,interesting, complicated people, who are full of surprises, because JoelOliansky, the writer-director, has thought about them and cared enough aboutthem to let their personalities lead him down unexpected avenues. There's onlyone major lapse: the inclusion, after two hours of great piano compositions, ofLalo Schifrin's dreadful song, "People Alone," sung by Randy Crawfordover the end titles as if none of those great composers should be allowed torest in peace.