"Hardly Working" is one of the great non-experiencesof my moviegoing life. I was absolutely stunned by the vast stupidity of thisfilm. It was a test of patience and tolerance that a saint might not havepassed--but I didn't walk out. I remained for every single last dismal wretchedawful moment. I was keeping a pledge to myself. Watching the "Today" show in a hotel room in LosAngeles, I sawJerry Lewisbeing interviewed by Gene Shalit. Jerry wasconvinced that the critics had it in for him. He hinted, none too subtly, thatthe chances were Shalit would dislike the film when he saw it (Shalit claimednot to have seen it already, which was an excellent ploy). In"Variety" I'd read that the critics were barred from the Miamipremiere of the film because, and I paraphrase, Jerry Lewis makes films for themasses and critics are unequipped to understand his appeal. Horse manure."Hardly Working" is one of the worst movies ever to achievecommercial release in this country, and it is no wonder it was on the shelf fortwo years before it saw the light of day. It is not just a bad film, it isincompetent filmmaking. Advertisement JerryLewis, as director, has no sense of timing--and timing is the soul of comedy.He leaves people standing onscreen waiting for something to be said. He throwsin random, odd pieces of comic business that are inexplicable and not funny. Hehas made his film into an educational experience: See it, and you will learn bydefault what competent film editing is. Theplot stars Jerry as a born loser who is fired from his job as a circus clown(and no wonder; the film's one clown sequence is not even remotely funny). Hethrows himself on the mercy of his sister and brother-in-law, and then trieshis hand at a variety of jobs, including gas station attendant, before finallywinding up with the U.S. Postal Service. The movie sets us up for several comicset pieces, none of which deliver. Example: Applying for a job at the gasstation, Jerry sneaks up behind the owner, who is making a tall stack of oilcans. Jerry scares him, and the owner tips the cans over. Later, Jerry lets acustomer's gas tank overflow. The owner, nearly finished rebuilding the stack,sees what Jerry is doing and so deliberately knocks over the stack again. Why?That is an excellent question to ask again and again during this movie. Somescenes are totally inexplicable. These include a conversation Lewis has withhimself in drag (it doesn't even use trick photography, just over-the-shouldershots with stand-ins wearing wigs); a scene in which he waits for a very longtime in a supervisor's office, to no avail; and several scenes in which hespills things on people. Once, a very long time ago, Jerry Lewis made me laugh.I was seven at the time. He still seems to be making movies for the sameaudience.