This movie is appalling. It made me want to rub my eyes. Was itpossible that the greatBilly Wilder, whose credits include such sublimecomedies as “Some Like It Hot” and such unforgettable satirical dramas as “SunsetBlvd.,” could possibly have made a film this bad? “Buddy Buddy” is very bad. It is a comedy without any laughs.(And, yes, I mean literally that it contains no laughs.) But it is worse thanthat. It succeeds in reducing two of the most charming actors in Americanmotion picture history to unlikable ciphers. Can you imagine a film thatco-starsWalter MatthauandJack Lemmonand yet contains no charm, ebullience,wit, charisma even friendliness? This whole movie is like one of those patheticHollywood monsters drained of its life fluids. The plot is simple and isdeveloped at redundant length. A grouchy old Mafia hit man (Matthau) isknocking off a series of witnesses. As the film opens, he disguises himself asa mailman and plants a bomb in a mailbox. It is one of those rural-stylemailboxes with a red flag that snaps up, and it looks a little strange out bythe sidewalk in Beverly Hills, but never mind: Seconds later, he's disguised asa milkman, delivering poisoned milk. Are there still milkmen? AdvertisementThis early in the film, we're still asking such logical questions. Later, thedespair sets in. Matthau checks into a hotel across from a courthouse so thathe can set up a sniping post and assassinate another witness. Lemmon checksinto the room next door so that he can kill himself. He wants to commit suicidebecause his wife (Paula Prentiss) has run away with a goofy sex therapist(Klaus Kinski). The gimmick is that Lemmon's suicide attempts keep calling attention to thefloor of the hotel where Matthau wants to maintain a very low visibility. SoMatthau is forced to become Lemmon's friend, of sorts, in between episodes ofchloroforming him and tying him to chairs. None of this plot description even suggests the dismal morbidity of “Buddy Buddy.”It is possible, I suppose, that this selfsame plot and even these identicalactors and maybe even the same director could have produced a funny movie. Thatis not the case this time. Basically, we are invited to watch two drudgesmeander through a witless, pointless exercise in farce. Wilder, Lemmon, Matthau. They have given us wonderful moments of movie comedy.Their credits together include “The Fortune Cookie” and the “The Front Page.”Wilder has also directed Lemmon in the “The Apartment,” “Some Like It Hot” and “Avanti!.”Some of those titles represent great movies. Some, such as “Avanti!,” weredisappointing. “Buddy Buddy” is incompetent. And that is the saddest word I canthink of to describe it.