“Ticket To Heaven” is about ayoung man who enters the all-encompassing world of a religious cult. What makesthe movie absolutely spellbinding is that it shows us not only how he isrecruited into the group, but how anyone could be indoctrinated into one of themany cults in America today. This is a movie that has done its research, and itis made with such artistry that we share the experience of the young man.His name is David. He is played by     Nick Mancuso    ,a powerful young actor, as an independent type who flies from Toronto to SanFrancisco to discover what has happened to a friend who joined up with thecult. He is welcomed to their communal residence, joins in a meal and somesinging, and is asked if he'd like to spend the weekend at a retreat on thegroup's farm. He would. By the end of the weekend, he is a cult member. Can ithappen that fast? I've read stories claiming that some cults need onlyseventy-two hours to convert almost anyone to their way. The best and thebrightest make the best recruits, they say. The movie shows the threetechniques used to indoctrinate new members: (1) low-calorie, low-proteindiets; (2) sleep deprivation; (3) "love-bombing," which involvesconstant positive reinforcement, the chanting of slogans and great care neverto allow the recruit to be alone for a moment.AdvertisementAlthough “Ticket To Heaven” does not mention anyexisting cult by name, it is based on a series of newspaper articles about aformer Moonie. The techniques in the film could, I suppose, be used by anybody.What makes the film so interesting is that it's not just a docudrama, not justa sensationalist expose, but a fully realized drama that involves us on thehuman level as well as with its documentary material. There are scenes that areabsolutely harrowing: an overhead shot of David trying to take a walk byhimself and being "joined" by jolly friends; a scene where heguiltily bolts down a forbidden hamburger; a scene where another cult memberwhispers one sentence that sounds to us, as much as to David, like shockingheresy. By that point in the film, we actually understand why David has becomeso zombie-like and unquestioning. We have shared his experience.The final scenes in the film involve adeprogramming attempt. They are not as absorbing as what went before, if onlybecause they involve an effort of the intellect, instead of an assault on thevery personality itself. I've seen “Ticket To Heaven” three times, and at firstI thought the film's ending was "weaker" than the rest. Now I wonder.What cults offer is freedom from the personality. They remove from yourshoulders the burden of being you. That is a very seductive offer: why else dopeople also seek freedom from self through drugs, alcohol, and even jogging? AsDavid is seduced into the cult's womb, we also submit vicariously to theexperience. We understand its appeal. At the end, as David's reason is appealedto, as his intellect is reawakened, as he is asked to once again take up theburden of being himself, he resists--and maybe we do, too.