Melvin Dummarsays that what used to happen to Horatio Alger'sheroes really did happen to him: He gave a lift to a doddering old hitchhiker,loaned him a quarter, and was left $156 million in the hitchhiker's will. Ifeverybody is telling the truth and the will is genuine, the hitchhiker wasHoward Hughes. But Jonathan Demme's wonderful new comedy “Melvin and Howard”doesn't depend on whether the so-called Mormon Will was really written byHughes. That hardly matters. This is the story of a life lived at the other endof the financial ladder from Hughes. It sees Dummar as the kind of Americanhero who would send Alger out to hang himself. Advertisement Forwhat, after all, constitutes heroism? And why shouldn't Dummar be considered ahero? We learn from this movie that he ventured single-handedly into the jungleof American consumerism, and lived. We see his major battles. Here's a guy whowas married three times (twice to the same woman, the second time with the“Hawaiian War Chant” playing In an all-night Vegas chapel). Hehad three cars and a boat repossessed, he went from being Milkman of the Monthto hauling his first wife off a go-go stage, he loved his children, did notdrink or smoke, and stood at the brink of losing his gas station franchise onthe very day when a tall, blond stranger dropped what looked a lot like Hughes'last will and testament into his life. Thegenius of “Melvin and Howard” is that it is about Melvin, not Howard. The filmbegins and ends with scenes involving the Hughes character, who is played byJason Robardsas a desert rat with fading memories of happiness. Dummar stopsin the desert to answer a call of nature, finds Hughes lying in the sagebrush,gives him a ride in his pickup truck and gets him to sing. For reasons of hisown, Hughes sings “Bye, Bye Blackbird”: Got no one to love and understand me…oh, what hard-luck stories they all hand me. Robardsis a chillingly effective Hughes. But this movie belongs toPaul Le Mat, asDummar. Le Mat is the actor who played the round-faced hot-rodder in “AmericanGraffiti,” and Dummar is the kind of guy that character might have grown up tobe. He is pleasant, genial, simple of speech but crafty of mind, and alwayslooking for an angle. He angles for Milkman of the Month, he plots to get hiswife on a TV game show, he writes songs like "Santa's Souped-UpSleigh," he plays the slots at Vegas and goes through his life asking onlyfor a few small scores. Advertisement Whenhe gets a big score -- named beneficiary of $156 million in a will that seemsto have been signed by Hughes -- he hardly knows what to do, Long-lostrelatives and new-found friends turn up by the dozens, and press conferencesare held in front of his gas station. There is a court trial. The movie neverreally addresses itself to the details of the Hughes will court case. It goesinstead for the drama, and for the effect on Dummar and his family. Thisis a slice of American life. It shows the flip side of Gary Gilmore's Utah. Itis a world of mobile homes, Pop Tarts, dust, kids and dreams of glory. It'spretty clear how this movie got made. Hollywood started with the notion thatthe story of the mysterious Hughes will might make a good courtroom thriller. Well,maybe it would have. But my hunch is that when they met Dummar, they had thegood sense to realize that they could get a better -- and certainly afunnier-story out of what happened to him between the day he met Hughes and theday the will was discovered. Dummar is the kind of guy who thinks they oughtamake a movie out of his life. This time, he was right.