Francois Truffautsays he wanted to satisfy, three"longtime dreams" by making "The Last Metro." He wanted totake the camera backstage in a theater, to evoke the climate of the Nazioccupation of France, and, to giveCatherine Deneuvethe role of a responsiblewoman. He has achieved the first and third dreams, but he has not evoked theOccupation well enough to make "The Last Metro" more than asentimental fantasy. The film takes place backstage, and below-stage, at a theater inParis. The theater's director is a German Jew (Heinz Bennent) who already hasfled from Nazi Germany and now, with the occupation of Paris, goes intopermanent hiding in the basement of his theater. Upstairs, his wife (Deneuve)spreads the rumor that he has fled to South America. Then she relays hisinstructions as the theater attempts to save itself from bankruptcy bypresenting a, new production. Advertisement Thereare many other characters in the movie, which at times resembles Truffaut'srecreation of a film production in "Day for Night."Gerard Depardieuplays the leading man for the new production. The supporting cast includes ayoung woman who will do anything for a job in the theater, an older woman ofambiguous sexuality, an avuncular stage manager, a gay director and a powerfulcritic who is such an evil monster that he must surely be inspired by someoneTruffaut knows. Mostof the movie's events take place within the walls of the theater; this is abackstage film, not a war film. We see the rehearsals under way, with Bennent downstairslistening through an air duct. There are the romantic intrigues among the cast members.There are occasional walk-throughs by Nazis. There are moments of great danger,somewhat marred by the fact that Truffaut does not resolve them realistically.And there is an unforgivably sentimental ending that ties up everything withoutsolving anything. Theproblem, I think, is that Truffaut sees the Nazi presence in Paris simply as aplot device to create tension within his theatrical troupe. It is ever so muchmore dramatic If the show must go on despite raids, political directives and aelectricity blackout that requires the stagehands to power a generator bybicycle-power. It's all too cute. Nobody seems to really understand thatthere's a war on, out there. Andyet, within the unfortunate limitations that Truffaut sets for himself, he doesdeliver an entertaining movie. Catherine Deneuve is as beautiful as ever, andas enigmatic (it is typical of her performance that at the end we have to waitfor the screenplay to tell us who she does, or does not, really love). Depardieuis gangly and sincere, a strong presence. Bennent, as the husband downstairs,is wan and courageous In the Paul Henreid role. And the most fascinatingcharacter in the cast is of course the villain, Daxiat, the pro-Nazi critic. Heat least seems in touch with the true evil that the others, and Truffaut, seeas backdrop.