The presentation ofAbel Gance's "Napoleon" is one ofthe great entertainment events of the 1980s, and the logistics of the event arelittle short of miraculous. This epic silent film, which was shown first inParis in 1927 with Charles De Gaulle sitting attentively in the audience, verynearly was lost forever. Madejust at the end of the silent film era, it was hailed as a masterpiece butdismissed by exhibitors as too long, too impractical to be shown. It was cutinto shorter versions by Abel Gance and others. Whole scenes disappeared and werepresumed to be lost. The film became a legend, much talked-about, never seen. Advertisement Andyet (this is the miracle) a virtually fully restored print of"Napoleon" plays this weekend and next at the Chicago Theater. Itwill be shown as it was intended to be shown, on a giant screen in a greatmovie palace. And in the orchestra pit, conducting his own original score forthe film,Carmine Coppolawill lead some 60 musicians and the theater's mightyWurlitzer pipe organ in accompaniment. Itis also, no doubt, something of a miracle that the theater is nearly sold out,at $10 to $20 a ticket (some tickets remain for next weekend). This is the kindof film that needs showmanship as well as restoration, and it found its twoangels in Kevin Brownlow andFrancis Ford Coppola. Brownlowis the British film historian who tracked down the missing footage of"Napoleon" in the world's film archives, and who worked with Gance,now 92, in supervising the five-year task of reconstructing the film. Coppolais the American producer-director who correctly bet that audiences would beintrigued by a spectacular presentation of a silent classic with fullorchestral support. Hecommissioned his father, Carmine Coppola, to compose the score. Carmine is alongtime musical director for Broadway shows, and the Oscar-winning composer ofthe music for his son's "Godfather" films. His score for"Napoleon", which I heard last winter during a performance at RadioCity Music Hall, is just the sort of music this film needs: bravura, filledwith energy, unabashedly romantic, not at all shy about quoting the"Marseilles" at every appropriate opportunity. Foralmost all members of a modern movie audience, this showing of"Napoleon" will represent a first-time experience at seeing a silentfilm with a live orchestra. It was for me, and it was a glorious experience.The vast size of the image and the great authority of the orchestra combined toliberate "Napoleon" from the limitations of realism. One thing wemembers of the talkie era forget is that characters in a talking movie areforced, by and large, to speak in everyday language or risk soundingridiculous. And their realistic speech tends to anchor the movies themselves inthe realm of literal possibility. Advertisement Gance's"Napoleon" has no such limitations. The movie boldly uses symbolism,highly dramatic cross-cutting, spilt-screen images and special effects to poundus over the head with its fantasy and idealism. One scene uses special effectsto show the French Senate literally tossing like ocean waves; it is edited toparallel Napoleon's survival of a tempest at sea. Sceneslike that got spontaneous applause when I saw the film at Radio City MusicHall. Some critics have asked themselves, not unfairly, whether the audiencemight have been applauding the very fact that Gance was able to achieve hiseffects In 1927: It's not so much what he does, the argument goes, as when hewas able to do it. That'sa good question. The film ends, for example, with a spectacular three-screen,three-camera triptych that represents the first use of the principle lateradapted as Cinerama. Do we applaud because of Gance's technical achievement? Inthis case, I think not. As Napoleon surveys his literally thousands of troopsand then rides on horseback across the entire sweep of three screens, I think Ifelt not simply technical admiration but a true, surging sense of wonder: Thereare many images in "Napoleon" that are so grand, so filled with thecreative exuberance of their maker, that we're swept up in spontaneous enthusiasm. Movieshave become romance, history, drama, fantasy and realistic portraits of life.But before they were anything else, they were spectacle. The very fact thatthey had been made, that they presented images to us that were not actuallypresent, was reason enough to go. And from pure spectacle, they developedinevitably into spectacular epic, most importantly in Griffith's "Birth ofa Nation" in 1915. WhatGriffith began, Gance concluded 12 years later. "Napoleon" is thelast great silent epic. We will not see its like again. What is wonderful isthat we can see it at all. Advertisement