"Clash of the Titans" is a grand and glorious romanticadventure, filled with grave heroes, beautiful heroines, fearsome monsters, andawe-inspiring duels to the death. It is a lot of fun. It was quite possiblyintended as a sort of Greek mythological retread of "Star Wars" (ithas a wise little mechanical owl in it who's a third cousin of R2-D2), but it'salso part of an older Hollywood tradition of special-effects fantasies, and itsvisual wonderments are astonishing. The story, on the other hand, is robust and straightforward.Perseus (Harry Hamlin) is locked into a coffin with his mother and cast intothe sea, after she has angered the gods. But Zeus (Laurence Olivier) takes pityand sees that the coffin washes ashore on a deserted island, where Perseusgrows to manhood and learns of his mission in life. The mission, in a nutshell,is to return to Joppa and rescue Andromeda (Judi Bowker) from a fate worse thandeath: marriage to the hideously ugly Calibos, who was promised her hand inmarriage before he was turned into a monster by the wrath of the gods. Caliboslives in a swamp and dispatches a gigantic, scrawny bird every night to fetchhim the spirit of the sleeping Andromeda in a gilded cage. If Perseus is tomarry Andromeda, he must defeat Calibos in combat and also answer a riddle posedby Cassiopeia, Andromeda's mother. Those who answer the riddle incorrectly arecondemned to die. Love was more complicated in the old days. Advertisement Thereare, of course, other tests. To follow the bird back to the lair of Calibos,the resourceful Perseus must capture and tame Pegasus, the last of the greatwinged horses. He must also enter the lair of Medusa, who turns men to stonewith one glance, and behead her so that he can use her dead eyes to petrify thegargantuan monster Kraken, who is unchained from his cage on the ocean floor sothat he can ravish Joppa in general and Andromeda in particular. Allof this is gloriously silly. But because the movie respects its material, iteven succeeds in halfway selling us this story; movies that look like"Clash of the Titans" have a tendency to seem ridiculous, but thisfilm has the courage of its convictions. It is also blessed with a cast thatsomehow finds its way past all the monsters and through all the heroic dialogueand gets us involved in the characters. Harry Hamlin is a completelysatisfactory Perseus, handsome and solemn and charged with his own mission.Judi Bowker is a beautiful princess and a great screamer, especially in thescene where she's chained to the rock and Kraken is slobbering all over her. BurgessMeredith has a nice little supporting role as Ammon, an old playwright whothinks he may be able to turn all of this into a quick epic. And LaurenceOlivier is just as I have always imagined Zeus: petulant, but a pushover for apretty face. Thereal star of the movie, however, is Ray Harryhausen, who has worked more thanforty years as a creator of special effects. He uses combinations of animation,miniatures, optical tricks, and multiple images to put humans into the samemovie frames as the most fantastical creatures of legend, and more often thannot, they look pretty convincing: when Perseus tames Pegasus, it sure lookslike he's dealing with a real horse (except for the wings, of course). Harryhausen'scredits include "Mighty Joe Young," "Jason and theArgonauts" and "The Golden Voyage of Sinbad," but "Clash ofthe Titans" is his masterwork. Among his inspired set-pieces: the battlein the Medusa's lair, with her hair writhing with snakes; the flying-horsescenes; the gigantic prehistoric bird; the two-headed wolf-dog, Dioskilos; theStygian witches; and, of course, Kraken, who rears up from the sea and causestidal waves that do a lot of very convincing damage to a Greek city that existsonly in Harryhausen's art. The most lovable special-effects creation in themovie is little Bubo, a golden owl sent by the gods to help Perseus in histrials. Bubo whistles and rotates his head something like R2-D2 in "StarWars," and he has a similar personality, too, especially at the hilariousmoment when he enters the film for the first time. "Clashof the Titans" is a family film (there's nothing in it that would disturbany but the most impressionable children), and yet it's not by any meansinnocuous: It's got blood and thunder and lots of gory details, all presentedwith enormous gusto and style. It has faith in a story-telling tradition thatsometimes seems almost forgotten, a tradition depending upon legends and myths,magical swords, enchanted shields, invisibility helmets, and the overwhelmingpower of a kiss.