It's an irony, but there you are: The two best films about thelife of the passionate British novelist D. H. Lawrence are based on hisfiction. They are "Sons and Lovers" (1960), withDean Stockwellplaying a Nottingham miner's son (obviously based on Lawrence's memories of hisown childhood), and "Women in Love" (1969), withGlenda Jackson,Alan BatesandOliver Reedin a sexual tangle that reflected Lawrence's liberatingview of sexuality. Now comes "Priest of Love," a movie based on abiography of Lawrence and some of his letters and memoirs. This is said to be afactual biography, but, of course, any screen biography is fiction -- in thiscase, the imaginative impressions of the filmmakers about the life of a man they never knew. In "Priest of Love," we see many of the actualplaces where Lawrence lived, and the homes he occupied there, but we don'tlearn much about the man. Certainly not as much as we could intuit from thosetwo earlier films (and learn from his books, of course). Advertisement Ibelieve that underlying poetic truths about people's lives are more importantthan the facts, anyway. It doesn't matter when you were born, but it doesmatter what kind of relationships you had with your fellow travelers throughlife. "Priest of Love" doesn't seem that interested in Lawrence'sinner life, though. It's more concerned with arranging attractive photographsof the period he lived in. It gives us all the correct costumes and props andattitudes, but when it comes to what made Lawrence live and breathe, the moviefalls back too easily on talk about "genius." Thegreat British actorIan McKellen, fresh from his triumph in “Amadeus” onBroadway, does an interesting job of impersonating Lawrence. He looks somethinglike him, he doesn't overact a role filled with temptations for bombast, and inthe scenes where he is seen writing, we get the impression that there isthought behind his writing, and not just an actor's pushing of a pen. ButMcKellen is sandbagged by a script that requires him, too, to fall back onnonsense about genius and the poet's mission. I was reminded of the story aboutthe time publisher Bennett Cerf told James Joyce's wife, Nora, that her husbandwas a genius. "It's easy enough for you to say that," Nora sniffed,"as you do not have to live with the man." Theaction in "Priest of Love" tends to avoid Lawrence's childhood, whichwas in some ways the most interesting period of his life. We see young Lawrencein misty, ill-defined flashbacks -- picture postcards about early loves anddead family. The adult Lawrence is bedeviled by censors, hounded by the Britishpress, and splashed all over the scandal sheets after his marriage to FriedaLawrence (the press could not forgive Lawrence for marrying the sister of theGerman flying ace Baron von Richthofen, or for the fact that he took her awayfrom a husband and three children). TheLawrences set sail for America and the art colony run in Taos, N.M., by theeccentric patroness of the arts Mabel Dodge. It is fascinating to seeAva Gardnerplaying Dodge; at 60, Gardner is beautiful, mysterious and just rightfor this role. But by then we've lost interest in the movie. It doesn't set upconflicts, only arguments, and it doesn't generate suspense, only curiosity. Ihave the notion that D. H. Lawrence, if he could see it, would wonder who itwas about. Advertisement