"Tattoo" could have been an effective and disturbingmovie, an exploration like "American Gigolo" of the perverse shoresof eroticism. It has moments that give promise, that seem to suggest anunderstanding of its characters -- and then it dissolves into a routine kidnappingwith lots of screams and a little kinkiness. Rarely have I seen a movie duringwhich I was more acutely aware of the moments when the director was doingexactly the wrong thing. The story is about the deeply buried implications of tattoos. ItstarsBruce Dern, in a very good performance as a man who was scarred by acruel, perfectionist father. His childhood made Dern a man whose puritanattitudes toward sex mask a fear and hostility toward women. The movie opens inJapan, where Dern, an American soldier, witnesses a parade by one of theJapanese secret societies of tattoo, artists. Dern is fascinated and undergoesan elaborate full-body tattoo. Advertisement Backin America, he runs a tattoo shop in Hoboken, and one day he is hired to drawsome phony, wash-away tattoos on fashion models. He's strongly attracted to oneof the models (played by former James Bond girlMaud Adams). She's intrigued byDern and makes an advance. Dern is torn between his sexual attraction to thewoman, and his distaste for her lifestyle, her four-letter words, her live-inboyfriend. She visits his studio. He tries to explain what tattooing means tohim: When it is applied with full seriousness, it is one person's mark ofpossession upon the other. "Some women," Dern muses, "enjoy thefeeling of being totally possessed." Wecan guess where this is leading. And unfortunately, "Tattoo" growsmost predictable just when it should take chances and reach for psychologicalinsights. Dern kidnaps Adams, takes her to his isolated family home, drugs herand diabolically places his "mark" upon her by covering her model'sbody with a full-length tattoo. Thisleads, inevitably, to the movie's key scene, the one in which Adams regainsconsciousness, looks in a mirror, and realizes for the first time what has beendone to her. How will "Tattoo"’s director,Bob Brooks, handle this?He blows it. He has her start screaming, crying, hitting Dern, calling him anSOB. It's a completely predictable scene that dissipates all the tension. Howwould a greater director have handled the scene? Perhaps with a long silence asthe woman regards herself in the mirror. TheRest of the movie is just dumb horror-film stuff. Adams tries to escape, Derncatches her, Dern continues his tattooing; Adams tries to stab him with a shardof broken mirror. It's all a retread of that British Hammer horror film"Scream and Scream Again", where every time the victim awakened,another limb had been amputated. "Tattoo"opens so promisingly that its crucial scenes are doubly disappointing. Becausethe film's first hour makes it clear that "Tattoo" is not intended asjust another creepy horror film, the failure of the conclusion is all the moredisappointing. If only the filmmakers had taken the time to really thinkthrough the psychological possibilities of their film's climax, instead of justcranking out another captive woman potboiler. Advertisement