There can be something absolutely liberating about a movie thatmakes up its rules as it goes along. "Montenegro" is a movie likethat. It is about an uptight American wife who escapes from her husband'sutterly sedate existence in Stockholm and spends two wild and wooly nights in asleazy nightclub run by some expatriate Yugoslavians. She leaves behind a staid, comfortable, affluent Swedishhousehold, in which the only spark of life is the old grandfather's convictionthat he is Buffalo Bill, and that he can find a bride by advertising in thenewspaper. She finds herself in a ghetto inhabited by immigrant workers fromSouthern and Eastern Europe. She is surrounded by sex and violence and, truthto tell, she likes it. Advertisement "Montenegro"is the first movie in seven years fromDusan Makavejev, one of the great freespirits of moviemaking in our time. He does not see it as a protest against theexploitation of his poor countrymen who immigrate to Northern Europe in searchof jobs. Quite the contrary. He believes that his life-embracing countrymen aredoing the uptight Swedes a favor by condescending to live in their dullcountry. At one point, Makavejev says, he intended to dedicate "Montenegro"to the 11 million "guest workers" of Europe, “who moved north toexploit rich and prosperous people, bringing with them filthy habits, badmanners and the smell of garlic." Youcan guess from that statement something of the spirit in which "Montenegro"was made. The movie starsSusan Anspach, the displaced housewife of "Blumein Love," as the American wife of a rich Swedish executive. The Swede isErland Josephson, who played a similar character (from a radically differentpoint of view) in Ingmar Bergman's "Scenes from a Marriage." Theylive with a precocious son and the dotty grandfather, and occasionally consulta psychiatrist (Per Oscarsson) who is so sick he may be trying to researchinsanity from the inside. Their household is a mixture of sterile, efficientcreature comforts and buried frustration. Their sex life is not terrific. Anspach'shusband has to make a business trip. She thinks to join him, but at the airportshe's waylaid by a band of Yugoslavians, and before she quite understands whathas happened, she's posed for a Polaroid with a man with a knife stuck in hisforehead, and is sharing the back seat of a car with a sheep. The Yugoslavianstake her to the Zanzi Bar, a disreputable nightclub, where she witnesses thetransformation of a shy Yugoslavian farm girl into an exotic dancer, and findsherself powerfully attracted to the garlicky sexuality of a strong youngpeasant. Advertisement Thenightclub occupies no known plane of real existence. Like many of the places inMakevejev’s movies, it ventures into a fevered fantasy world of eroticism,Marxism and unbridled excess. We know we're in a strange place when we see thebattery-powered, remote-controlled toy U.S. Army tank with the large vibratormounted on it. For Makavejev, this is no doubt a splendid symbol, enjoining usto make love, not war. Seeinga Makavejev film is like experiencing a showdown with the director's libido. Hehas a few major themes: Large bureaucracies are stupid, ideologies are usuallymisunderstood by their most fervent supporters, most people are too uptight,possessions get in the way of sexuality, and an orgasm a day keeps the doctoraway. In this case, the doctor (Oscarsson) and the husband hold franticconferences about the whereabouts of the missing Anspach, while the Zanzi Barengages in an unrestrained countdown toward New Year's Day. Makevejev’smovies are very frank about sexuality, but they are not dirty. They have a kindof table-slapping, robust good health to them. Susan Anspach, who is notrobust, and who is in fact rather shy and frail, may not seem like a likelycandidate to enter this world, but she undergoes a transformation in the movie,from the suppressed, unbalanced housewife into a woman who was born to embraceRabelaisian excess. Maybeit's the movie's cheerful collision between the Cuisinart set and raw peasantpassion that is pleasing "Montenegro's" audiences (the movie was abig hit over the weekend among the Lincoln Park crowds at the Biograph).Without knowing it, Makavejev may have stumbled on the cinematic equivalent ofa visit to Greek Town. It's liberating to descend into the ethnic dives anddance to the wild zither and dodge flaming cheese and be home in front of theSony by midnight. That's why I especially love the last scene In "Montenegro,"in which Anspach returns to her affluent cocoon and takes appropriate action.