Variety, the show-biz bible, runs a one-line summaryat the top of all its movie reviews. ReviewingBette Midler's"Jinxed!," it simply reported: "Title says it all." Cruel,but appropriate. This is a messed-up movie that throws away what fewopportunities it has to entertain us, and gets totally lost in a plot thatstarts as comedy and moves through farce on its way to paralysis. The movie stars Bette Midler as a would-be Nevada lounge singer.She sings, indeed, in the movie's opening credits, and sings so well I wasnever able to understand for the rest of the movie why she was out of work. Shelives in a mobile home withRip Torn, a chronic gambler who dreams of makingone big score. Suddenly, he hits a winning streak. He discovers that wheneverhe plays at blackjack table where Ken WahI is the dealer, he cannot lose. Hemakes impossible bets and pulls them off. Card-counting has nothing to do withit; he's got a jinx on Wahl. Advertisement Wahlleaves Reno for Lake Tahoe. Midler and Torn follow. WahI keeps getting firedbecause of Torn's winning. He's advised to put a jinx on his jinxer, and so heshadows Torn and finds out where he lives. Then, when Torn is away, he burstsin on Midler, they become lovers, and Midler tries to convince Wahl to killTorn so they can collect on his life insurance and live happily ever after. Isthis fast-moving enough for you? Upto this point, "Jinxed!" has been mediocre, with flashes of humor.Now it starts to get really bad. Torn commits suicide before WahI can kill him.Wahl follows Midler's instructions and gets rid of the body in a stageddrunk-driving accident, after about 15 awkward minutes of schlepping the corpsearound. But then it turns out that Torn didn't leave an insurance policy --just a trail of letters that Midler has to follow, as they lead from a used cardealer to a hooker to an old gold miner, on her way to what treasure she cannotimagine. Thelast time I saw a plot like this was in "The All-Night TreasureHunt," a Disney production. I think it was better the last time. All duringthe shooting of "Jinxed!," there were rumors that the movie was inscript trouble, but who would have dreamed that the trouble was that theydidn't have a script? The movie breaks into life, briefly, when Midler issinging, which she does in the opening credits and then again at a high schoolreunion (putting a nice spin on "Papa Loves Mambo"). But the movie'sstory is so stupefying that we just sit there, incredulous. Whatis it with Midler? She proved long ago that she's a great singer, danger, comedienneand actress, on the stage. She was a great singer and actress in "TheRose," a drama. Then she made a wonderful concert film, "DivineMadness," which was a disappointment at the box office. Now this mess.Can't Midler and Hollywood figure out how to use her talent? Doesn't anybodyrealize it's time for a remake of "Easter Parade?"