"The Chosen" retells one of the most dependablestories in literature, the story in which two people from different backgroundsovercome their mistrust and learn to accept each other's traditions. Thesestories usually work best when the audience is in sympathy with both sets oftraditions; this is not the right time, for example, for a movie about a Moonielearning to get along with a follower of the Ayatollah Khomeini. In "TheChosen," one of the heroes is the son of a progressive Jewishintellectual, and the other is the son of a Hasidic rabbi. Advertisement from countless other movies as one of fedoras, brown overcoatsand big black cars with wide running boards. The movie opens on a playground,where one of the kids connects with a baseball that hits the other kid in theeye, temporarily blinding him. The first kid, the son of the scholar, visitsthe second kid at his home and enters a world of ancient traditions and rigiddiscipline. Therest of the movie develops this story of two different worlds, against abackdrop of World War II and the formation of the state of Israel. Reuven(Barry Miller) is the son of the intellectual (Maximilian Schell), who isinvolved in Zionism and the formation of a Jewish state. Danny (Robby Benson)is the son of the rabbi (Rod Steiger), who prefers that his son stay out ofpolitics and, indeed, stay as much as possible out of the modern world. Nowthis is, I suppose, a promising situation, and enough people found itinteresting to make Chaim Potok's 1967 novel, which inspired this movie, a bestseller. But "The Chosen" never came alive for me. I respected whatthe filmmakers were trying to do, and I admired the ambitious periodproduction, but I never really cared about these people. Apparently I'm notalone After playing in hundreds of theaters as a one-night benefit for Israelin 1980, this movie has been in search of a distributor ever since. Partof the trouble with the film is a certain lack of spontaneity in the lives ofthe characters. I never had the feeling that any of them had much of a chanceof surprising me. Everything they did was locked so firmly into therequirements of the plot that even the crises seemed predictable. At about thehalfway point, for example, nobody was on speaking terms with anyone else, butby the homestretch, there was an inevitable reconciliation and a triumph forhuman understanding. Yawn. I'mnever quite sure what this genre is trying to prove. What does it say whenpeople from radically different backgrounds learn to respect and love oneanother? That the backgrounds are interchangeable? That one's own beliefsaren't as important as a kind of amorphous ecumenism in which we're allbrothers? The problem is, in the real world, people generally don't get thatwishy-washy about the things that concern them. Norshould they, perhaps. Maybe that's what's disappointing about "The Chosen":It seems to argue that beliefs are interchangeable in the face of humanuniversality, when in fact our beliefs are what make us human, and the knack isto respect the other person's differences, not pretend they don't reallymatter. Advertisement