Well, to begin with, we never meet the aviator's wife. We hear alot about her, and we meet a mysterious blond woman who seems, for an afternoon,as if she might be his wife, but in the end the wife never turns up. Shenevertheless causes a lot of unhappiness for the young hero of Eric Rohmer'snew film, and teaches us the following lesson: It is enough to be unhappy aboutwhat we already know, without also being unhappy about what we only surmise. "The Aviator's Wife" is like such earlier Rohmer filmsas "My Night at Maud's," "Claire's Knee" and "Chloe in the Afternoon." It consists of a carefully -observed slice of life,containing lessons on human nature. Like those films, particularly the lasttwo, it also contains a wonderful, quiet wit, and a view of its characters thatcould be called affectionate anthropology, Advertisement Anotherlesson this time might be: What fools we are when it comes to love! Or, moreproperly, what fools others are, but what tragic heroes we are, when it comesto love. The movie's story is very complicated, but not needlessly so, since itstudies the labyrinths we can create with jealousy. It might be fun to take aquick trot through the maze: Thehero of the film is a 20-year-old postman who is in love with a 25-year-oldwoman. He works all night, she doesn't. Right away, they have problems. Onemorning, he arrives early at her apartment to see another man leaving. He knowsthat this man once had an affair with his girl. What he doesn't know is thatthe man arrived at the apartment only moments earlier, to break up with thewoman for once and all. The man Is a pilot, and he has just explained that hewill be staying with his wife after all, since she is pregnant. She is thefamous "aviator's wife" -- if, indeed, she exists. Soonafter, the hero jealously accuses his lover of having spent the night with theother man. She refuses to explain her behavior. They split. The kid dozes offIn a cafe, wakes up, suddenly spies the other man (with a blond woman -- thewife?) and follows them. To help with his cover, he picks up a 15-year-old girlhe's seen on a bus. She agrees to play along with the game. Afterfollowing the other couple for awhile, the hero gets into a long talk with thegirl. Then he goes to his lover's house and has a long talk with her,punctuated with tears. The truth about the previous lover emerges. At the endof the film, the young man is on the street again, following someone again: Itis, quite simply, his choice in life to be on the outside looking in. That'sthe story. It reveals little of the texture of this film, which Is about howgoofy, sad and driven we can be, especially when our hearts are fueled byself-made loneliness. There's a lot of talk in this movie, as much as in anyfilm since "My Dinner With Andre" (a title with a sly aside to"My Night at Maud's"). There needs to be a lot of talk, because"The Aviator's Wife" isn't about actions but about reactions,speculations, false leads, hurtful suspicions and romantic insecurity. We needto live within these weaknesses for a time in order to understand them. Advertisement Thewhole movie is acted in a straightforward, unaffected way. The hero (PhilippeMarlaud) doesn't snivel and pine; his jealousy is frank and up front. His lover(Marie Riviere) is lonely and weary, but deliberately not tragic. The younggirl from the bus (Anne-Laure Meury) is a small treasure, fresh and cheerful,revealing aspects of herself that she knows the boy Is not yet ready toobserve. The ending, in which the hero chooses alienation over the simplicityof accepting happiness, is sad, and sadder still in that we immediatelyidentify with it.