The basic joke in "Young Doctors in Love" wasanticipated five years ago, in Mel Brooks' "Silent Movie." Rememberthe scene where Brooks and his cohorts stand by Sid Caesar's bedside, watchinghis heartbeat reflected on a television monitor, when suddenly the heart beepturns into a Pong game? That combination of gallows humor and contemporarycross-references is repeated again and again in "Young Doctors inLove," and it's finally not very funny. Yet the movie sounds like a goodidea. Maybe it was a good idea, lost in the execution. "Young Doctors inLove" has as its modest ambition to be to "General Hospital"what "Airplane!" was to the "Airport" movies and ABC's"Police Squad" was to TV cop shows. Maybe there are two problemshere: (1) It is rather hard to outflank "General Hospital," a parodyof itself, and (2) If you do, you wind up skirting the edges of very unpleasantcomic material about blood and death. Hospitals are just not very funny. Advertisement The movie takes place in a loony Los Angeles city hospital,where we meet all the standard types: the monomaniac surgeon, the befuddledchief of staff, and sex-and-dope crazed interns and nurses, and the ambitiousyoung medical students in their first year of residence. There also are severallong-running gags, the unfunniest being about a hit man who is turned into thehapless victim of accidents and near-fatal emergency treatments. The movielooks at times like a real life version of one of those drawings by Madmagazine's Jack Davis, in which lunatics chase each other in circles.Are there funny moments in the middle of the chaos? Yes, there are. There is,in fact, one wonderfully funny moment, starring that superb character actorHarry Dean Stanton, he of the long face, the quivering eyelids, and theperpetual hangover. He attempts to explain the secretion of bodily fluids tothe amazed young medical students, and by the time he is finished with hisamazing catalog, there is not an orifice left untapped. That'sa great scene, andDabney Colemanhas some nice moments as the egotisticalsurgeon, obviously modeled on the sorts of Texas super doctors who do most oftheir operations on the cover of Life magazine. Coleman reminds us again hereof his versatility; his roles also have included the boss in "9 to 5"and Jane Fonda's fiancé in "On Golden Pond." But for the rest,"Young Doctors in Love" is not very funny and not very inventive. Godknows it tries. Like "Airplane!," it spends its energy trying towedge laughs into every crevice of the plot. There are some nice moments,especially a gag about E.T. But most of the time I wasn't laughing, and towardthe end I wasn't even smiling. When a comedy goes wrong, it goes very wrong."Young Doctors in Love" goes very wrong.