John Irving's best-selling novel, The World According toGarp, was cruel, annoying, and smug. I kept wanting to give it to my cats. Butit was wonderfully well-written and was probably intended to inspire some ofthose negative reactions in the reader. The movie version of Garp, however,left me entertained but unmoved, and perhaps the movie's basic failing is thatit did not inspire me to walk out on it. Something has to be wrong with a filmthat can take material as intractable as Garp and make it palatable. AdvertisementLike a lot of movie versions of novels, the filmof Garp has not reinterpreted the material in its own terms. Indeed, it doesn'tinterpret it at all. It simply reproduces many of the characters and events inthe novel, as if the point in bringing Garp to the screen was to provide avisual aid for the novel's readers. With the book we at least know how we feelduring the saga of Garp's unlikely life; the movie lives entirely within itsmoments, keeping us entirely inside a series of self-contained scenes.The story of Garp is by now part of best-sellingfolklore. We know that Garp's mother was an eccentric nurse, a cross between asaint and a nuisance, and that Garp was fathered in a military hospital atopthe unconscious body of a brain-damaged technical sergeant. That's how much useGarp's mother, Jenny Fields, had for men. The movie, like the book, followsGarp from this anticlimactic beginning through a lifetime during which he isconstantly overshadowed by his mother, surrounded by other strange women andwomen-surrogates, and asks for himself, his wife and children only uneventfulpeace and a small measure of happiness.A great deal happens, however, to disturb thepeace and prevent the happiness. Garp is accident-prone, and sadness anddisaster surround him. Assassinations, bizarre airplane crashes, and automishaps are part of his daily routine. His universe seems to have been woundbackward.The movie's method in regarding the nihilism ofhis life is a simple one. It alternates two kinds of scenes: those in whichvery strange people do very strange things while pretending to be sane, andthose in which all of the dreams of those people, and Garp, are shattered ininstants of violence and tragedy.AdvertisementWhat are we to think of these people and theevents in their lives? The novel The World According to Garp was (I think) atragicomic counterpoint between the collapse of middle-class family values andthe rise of random violence in our society. A protest against that violenceprovides the most memorable image in the book, the creation of the Ellen JamesSociety, a group of women who cut out their tongues in protest against whathappened to Ellen James, who had her tongue cut out by a man. The bizarrebehavior of the people in the novel, particularly Garp's mother and the membersof the Ellen Jamesians, is a cross between activism and insanity, and there isthe clear suggestion that without such behavior to hold them together, all ofthese people would be unable to cope at all and would sign themselves into thenearest institution. As a vision of modern American life, Garp is bleak, but ithas something to say.The movie, however, seems to believe that thebook's characters and events are somehow real, or, to put it another way, thatthe point of the book is to describe these colorful characters and theirunlikely behavior, just as Melville described the cannibals in Typee. Although     Robin Williams    plays Garp as a relatively plausible, sometimes ordinary person,the movie never seems bothered by the jarring contrast between his cheerfulpluckiness and the anarchy around him.