I've always felt this way about female impersonators: Theymay not be as pretty as women, or sing as well, or wear a dress as well, butyou've got to hand it to them; they sure look great and sing pretty--for men.There are no doubt, of course, female impersonators who practice their art soskillfully that they cannot be told apart from real women--but that, of course,misses the point. A drag queen should be maybe 90 percent convincing as awoman, tops, so you can applaud while still knowing it's an act. AdvertisementInsights like these are crucial to BlakeEdwards's “Victor/Victoria,” in which     Julie Andrews    plays a woman playing a manplaying a woman. It's a complicated challenge. If she just comes out as JulieAndrews, then of course she looks just like a woman, because she is one. Sowhen she comes onstage as "Victoria," said to be "Victor"but really (we know) actually Victoria, she has to be an ever-so-slightlyimperfect woman, to sell the premise that she's a man. Whether she succeeds isthe source of a lot of comedy in this movie, which is a lighthearted meditationon how ridiculous we can sometimes become when we take sex too seriously.The movie is made in the spirit of classic moviesex farces, and is in fact based on one (a 1933 German film named “Viktor UndViktoria,” which I haven't seen). Its more recent inspiration is probably “LaCage aux Folles,” an enormous success that gave Hollywood courage to try thisoffbeat material. In the movie, Andrews is a starving singer, out of work, downto her last franc, when she meets a charming old fraud named Toddy, who is gay,and who is played by     Robert Preston    in the spirit of Ethel Mertz on "ILove Lucy." Preston is kind, friendly, plucky, and comes up with the mostoutrageous schemes to solve problems that wouldn't be half so complicated if heweren't on the case. In this case, he has a brainstorm: Since there's no marketfor girl singers, but a constant demand for female impersonators, why shouldn'tAndrews assume a false identity and pretend to be a drag queen? "Butthey'll know I'm not a man!" she wails. "Of course!" Prestonsays triumphantly.The plot thickens when     James Garner    , as aChicago nightclub operator, wanders into Victor/Victoria's nightclub act andfalls in love with him/her. Garner refuses to believe that lovely creature is aman. He's right, but if Andrews admits it, she's out of work. Meanwhile,Garner's blond girlfriend (     Lesley Ann Warren    ) is consumed by jealousy, andintrigue grows between Preston and Alex Karras, who plays Garner's bodyguard.Edwards develops this situation as farce, with lots of gags depending onsplit-second timing and characters being in the wrong hotel rooms at the righttime. He also throws in several nightclub brawls, which aren't very funny, butwhich don't much matter. What makes the material work is not only the fact thatit is funny (which it is), but that it's about likable people.AdvertisementThe three most difficult roles belong toPreston, Garner, and Karras, who must walk a tightrope of uncertain sexualidentity without even appearing to condescend to their material. They never do.Because they all seem to be people first and genders second, they see the humorin their bewildering situation as quickly as anyone, and their cheerful abilityto rise to a series of implausible occasions makes “Victor/Victoria” not only afunny movie, but, unexpectedly, a warm and friendly one.