The interior of a computer is a fine and private place, butnone, I fear, do there embrace, except in "Tron," a dazzling moviefromWalt Disneyin which computers have been used to make themselves romanticand glamorous. Here's a technological sound-and-light show that is sensationaland brainy, stylish, and fun. The movie addresses itself without apology to the computergeneration, embracing the imagery of those arcade video games that parents fearare rotting the minds of their children. If you've never played Pac-Man orSpace Invaders or the Tron game itself, you probably are not quite ready to seethis movie, which begins with an evil bureaucrat stealing computer programs tomake himself look good, and then enters the very mind of a computer itself to engagethe villain, the hero, and several highly programmable bystanders in a war ofthe wills that is governed by the rules of both video games and computerprograms. Advertisement Thevillain is a man named Dillinger (David Warner). The hero is a bright kid namedFlynn (Jeff Bridges) who created the original programs for five great new videogames, including the wonderfully named "Space Paranoid." Dillingerstole Flynn's plans and covered his tracks in the computer. Flynn believes thatif he can track down the original program, he can prove Dillinger is a thief.To prevent that, Dillinger uses the very latest computer technology to breakFlynn down into a matrix of logical points and insert him into the computer,and at that point "Tron" leaves any narrative or visual universe wehave ever seen before in a movie and charts its own rather wonderful path. Inan age of amazing special effects, "Tron" is a state-of-the-artmovie. It generates not just one imaginary computer universe, but a multitudeof them. Using computers as their tools, the Disney filmmakers literally havebeen able to imagine any fictional landscape, and then have it, through ananimated computer program. And they integrate their human actors and the whollyimaginary worlds of Tron so cleverly that I never, ever, got the sensation thatI was watching some actor standing in front of, or in the middle of, specialeffects. The characters inhabit this world. Andwhat a world it is! Video gamesmen race each other at blinding speed, hurtlingup and down computer grids while the movie shakes with the overkill of Dolbystereo (justified, for once). The characters sneak around the computer's logicguardian terminals, clamber up the sides of memory displays, talk their waypast the guardians of forbidden programs, hitch a ride on a power beam, andsucceed in entering the mind of the very Master Control Program itself,disabling it with an electronic Frisbee. This is all a whole lot of fun."Tron" has been conceived and written with a knowledge of computers thatit mercifully assumes the audience shares. That doesn't mean we do share it,but that we're bright enough to pick it up, and don't have to sit through long,boring explanations of it. Advertisement Thereis one additional observation I have to make about "Tron," and Idon't really want it to sound like a criticism: This is an almost whollytechnological movie. Although it's populated by actors who are engaging(Bridges, Cindy Morgan) or sinister (Warner), it is not really a movie abouthuman nature. Like "Star Wars" or "The Empire StrikesBack," but much more so, this movie is a machine to dazzle and delight us.It is not a human-interest adventure in any generally accepted way. That's allright, of course. It's brilliant at what it does, and in a technical way maybeit's breaking ground for a generation of movies in which computer-generateduniverses will be the background for mind-generated stories aboutemotion-generated personalities. All things are possible.