There is a shock of recognition almost from the beginning of “Tex”,because we're listening to the sound of American voices in an authenticallyAmerican world, the world of teenage boys trying to figure things out and makethe right decisions. The voices sound right but may be a little unfamiliar,because adolescents on television are often made to talk in pseudo-hip sitcomnonspeak. Here in “Tex” are the clear voices of two young men who are worthy ofattention. Their names are Tex and Mason. They're brothers, one about eighteen,the other fourteen and a half. They live by themselves in a rundown house onsome land outside a rural suburb of Tulsa. Their father is a rodeo cowboy whohardly ever stops in at home and forgets to send money for weeks at a time. Thesetwo kids are raising themselves and doing a pretty good job of it. AdvertisementThe movie tells the story of a couple of weeksin their lives. These are the kinds of weeks when things can go either well orbadly--and if they go badly, we sense, Tex could get his whole life off to thewrong start. The brothers are broke. Mason sells their horses to raise money tobuy food and get the gas turned back on. That makes Tex angry and sad; he's akid looking for trouble.We meet the other people in their world. There'sthe rich family down the road, dominated by a stern father who makes his teenagerstoe a strict line. His kids are just as unpredictable as anyone else's, but hedoesn't believe that. He believes their two undisciplined friends, Tex andMason, are leading them into trouble and practically dragging them tolate-night beer parties. There's another complication. His daughter and Tex arebeginning to fall in love.There's another friend, a local kid who got agirl pregnant, married her, and moved to Tulsa to start a family. He's dealingdrugs. Mason knows this intuitively and surely, and knows the kid is headingfor trouble. Tex knows it, too, but there comes a time in this story when Texjust doesn't give a damn, and when the drug dealer happens to be there, Texaccepts a ride into Tulsa with him. Tex doesn't do drugs himself, but he getsinto a very scary situation with another dealer, and there's a harrowing scenein which Tex wavers just at the brink of getting into serious trouble.There is more to this movie's story, but theimportant thing about it isn't what happens, but how it happens. The movie isso accurately acted, especially by     Jim Metzler    as Mason and     Matt Dillon    as Tex,that we care more about the characters than about the plot. We can see themlearning and growing, and when they have a heart-to-heart talk about "goingall the way," we hear authentic teenagers speaking, not kids who seem tohave been raised at Beverly Hills cocktail parties.“Tex” is based on a famous novel by S.E. Hinton, who has hadtwo of her other novels filmed byFrancis Ford Coppola. She knows a great dealabout adolescents, and her work is unaffected by sentimentality and easyromance. It's authentic. But the backgrounds of the two filmmakers are alsointeresting.Tim Hunterand Charles Haas bought the book and wrote thescreenplay, and Hunter directed. Their previous collaboration was a littlemovie named OVER THE EDGE, about teenagers who feel cornered and persecuted bythe rigid middle-class rules of a cardboard Denver suburb. That movie, a smallmasterpiece containing Matt Dillon's first movie appearance, never got a fairchance in theaters. Now here are Hunter and Haas again, still remembering whatit's like to be young, still getting the dialogue and the attitudes, thehang-ups and the dreams, exactly right. Advertisement