The peculiar thing about Spock is that, being half human andhalf Vulcan and therefore possessing about half the usual quota of human emotions,he consistently, if dispassionately, behaves as if he possessed very heroichuman emotions indeed. He makes a choice in “Star Trek II” that would be madeonly by a hero, a fool, or a Vulcan. And when he makes his decision, the movierises to one of its best scenes, because the "Star Trek" stories havealways been best when they centered around their characters. Although I likedthe special effects in the first movie, they were probably not the point; fansof the TV series wanted to see their favorite characters again, and “Trek II”understood that desire and acted on it. AdvertisementTime has passed since the last episode. Kirk hasretired to an administrative post. Spock is commanding the Enterprise, with alot of new faces in the crew. The ship is on a mission concerning the Genesisdevice, a new invention which, if I understand it correctly, is capable ofseeding a barren planet with luxuriant life. A sister ship, the USS Reliant, isscouting for lifeless planets and finds one that seems to be dead, but itsinstruments pick up a small speck of life. Crew members investigate, and findthe planet inhabited by an outlaw named Khan, who was exiled there years ago byKirk, and has brooded of vengeance ever since.Khan is played as a cauldron of resentment by     Ricardo Montalban    , and his performance is so strong that he helps illustrate ageneral principle involving not only Star Trek but “     Star Wars    ” (1977) and allthe epic serials, especially the “James Bond” movies: Each film is only as goodas its villain. Since the heroes and the gimmicks tend to repeat from film tofilm, only a great villain can transform a good try into a triumph. In acurious way, Khan captures our sympathy, even though he is an evil man whointroduces loathsome creatures into the ear canals of two Enterprise crewmembers. Montalban doesn't overact. He plays the character as a man of deeplywounded pride, whose bond of hatred with Admiral Kirk is stronger even than histraditional villain's desire to rule the universe.There is a battle in outer space in this movie,a particularly inept one that owes more to "Captain Video" than tostate-of-the-art special effects. I always love it when they give us spaceshipscapable of leaping across the universe, and then arm them with weapons so punythat a direct hit merely blows up a few control boards and knocks people offtheir feet. Somehow, though, I don't much care if the battles aren't thatamazing, because the story doesn't depend on them. It's about a sacrifice madeby Spock, and it draws on the sentiment and audience identification developedover the years by the TV series.Perhaps because of that bond, and the sense thatan episode may be over but the Enterprise will carry on, the movie doesn't feelthat it needs an ending in a conventional sense. The film closes with the usual"Star Trek" end narration, all about the ship's mission and itsquest, and we are obviously being set up for a sequel. You could almost arguethat the last few minutes of “Trek II” are a trailer for “Trek III”, but, no,that wouldn't be in the spirit of the Enterprise, would it?Advertisement