Sometimes when you've read the novel, it gets in the way ofthe images on the screen. You keep remembering how you imagined things. Thatdidn't happen with me during “Sophie’s Choice”, because the movie is soperfectly cast and well-imagined that it just takes over and happens to you.It's quite an experience.The movie stars     Meryl Streep    as Sophie, aPolish-Catholic woman, who was caught by the Nazis with a contraband ham, wassentenced to a concentration camp, lost her two children there, and then was somehowspared to immigrate to Brooklyn, U.S.A., and to the arms of an eccentriccharmer named Nathan. Sophie and Nathan move into an old boardinghouse, and therooms just below them are taken by Stingo, a jug-eared kid from the South whowants to be a great novelist. As the two lovers play out their doomed, romanticdestiny, Stingo falls in love with several things: with his image of himself asa writer, with his idealized vision of Sophie and Nathan's romance, and,inevitably, with Sophie herself.AdvertisementThe movie, like the book, is told with twonarrators. One is Stingo, who remembers these people from that summer inBrooklyn, and who also remembers himself at that much earlier age. The othernarrator, contained within Stingo's story, is Sophie herself, who rememberswhat happened to her during World War II, and shares her memories with Stingoin a long confessional. Both the book and the movie have long centralflashbacks, and neither the book nor the movie is damaged by those diversions,because Sophie's story is so indispensable to Stingo's own growth, from anadolescent dreamer to an artist who can begin to understand human suffering.The book and movie have something else in common. Despite the fact thatSophie's story, her choices, and her fate are all sad, sad stories, there is alot of exuberance and joy in the telling of them. “Sophie’s Choice” begins as ayoung Southerner's odyssey to the unimaginable North--to that strange landcelebrated by his hero, Thomas Wolfe, who took the all-night train to New Yorkwith its riches, its women, and its romance. Stingo is absolutely entranced bythis plump blond Polish woman who moves so winningly into his life, and by herintense, brilliant, mad lover.We almost don't notice, at first, as Stingo'sodyssey into adulthood is replaced, in the film, by Sophie's journey back intothe painful memories of her past. The movie becomes an act of discovery, as thenaive young American, his mind filled with notions of love, death, and honor,becomes the friend of a woman who has seen so much hate, death, and dishonorthat the only way she can continue is by blotting out the past, and drinkingand loving her way into temporary oblivion. It's basically a three-charactermovie, and the casting, as I suggested, is just right. Meryl Streep is a wonderas Sophie. She does not quite look or sound or feel like the Meryl Streep wehave seen before in “     The Deer Hunter    ” or “     Manhattan    ” or “The French Lieutenant’sWoman”. There is something juicier about her this time; she is merrier andsexier, more playful and cheerful in the scenes before she begins to tellStingo the truth about her past. Streep plays the Brooklyn scenes with anenchanting Polish-American accent (she has the first accent I've ever wanted tohug), and she plays the flashbacks in subtitled German and Polish. There ishardly an emotion that Streep doesn't touch in this movie, and yet we're neveraware of her straining. This is one of the most astonishing and yet one of themost unaffected and natural performances I can imagine.Kevin Kline    plays Nathan, the crazy romantic whoconvinces everyone he's on the brink of finding the cure for polio and whowavers uncertainly between anger and manic exhilaration.     Peter MacNicol    isStingo, the kid who is left at the end to tell the story. Kline, MacNicol, andStreep make such good friends in this movie--despite all the suffering they gothrough--that we really do believe the kid when he refuses to act on an unhappyrevelation, insisting, "These are my friends. I love them!"“Sopie’s Choice” is a fine, absorbing, wonderfully acted,heartbreaking movie. It is about three people who are faced with a series ofchoices, some frivolous, some tragic. As they flounder in the bewilderment ofbeing human in an age of madness, they become our friends, and we love them. Advertisement