“The Secret of Nimh” contains that absolute rarity amongfeature-length animated cartoons, an interesting premise. It is: What if agroup of laboratory animals were injected with an experimental drug that madethem as intelligent as humans? There have been smart animals in the movies foryears, of course, but they were always playing quasi-humans in a universe wherethe real humans were seen mostly from the knees down. Now here's a story thatconcerns itself with the problem of being a rat and having a superiorintelligence. AdvertisementAlthough the idea was what intrigued me about “TheSecret of Nimh”, the movie itself represents a philosophical statement for itsmakers. The animators who made this film were previously employed at the WaltDisney Studios, where they were heralded as the "new breed," groomedto replace the veterans who started with Walt himself and were all pastretirement age. But halfway through production of the most recent Disneyanimated feature, “     The Fox and the Hound    ”, a group of new breeders walked outand, led by director     Don Bluth    , set up their own shop at MGM.Their complaint was that Disney was cuttingcorners on painstaking traditional animating methods. Their vow was to make anon-Disney movie in the old Disney tradition. The main difference betweentraditional Disney animation and cheaper, newer methods is in the areas of bodymovements and backgrounds. Bluth and his followers wanted to make a movie inwhich the characters would have lots of body language (not just moving lips androlling eyes), and in which the backgrounds would be detailed and interesting,not just repetitive roll-bys. In “The Secret of Nimh”, they have succeeded inreproducing the marvelous detail and depth of the Disney classics. This is agood-looking, interesting movie that creates a little rodent world right underthe noses of the indifferent local humans. The story is perhaps a littlecomplicated at first, especially for younger viewers, but a flashback helpsmake things clear, and then the adventure begins.We learn that a group of rats and mice wasinjected with the secret potion in the laboratories of the National Instituteof Mental Health, and that they quickly became so smart that they were able toescape from “Nimh” and set up a society in a barnyard. Then they were facedwith an ethical dilemma: Should they continue to freeload off of the localhumans, stealing grains, supplies, and even electricity or should they set offinto the wilderness to establish a new society of their own? This larger storyis counterpointed with the saga of a mousy little widow named Mrs. Brisby,whose sick child is threatened by the approach of the tilling machine.“The Secret of Nimh” is an artistic success. Itlooks good, moves well, and delights our eyes. It is not quite such a successon the emotional level, however, because it has so many characters and involvesthem in so many different problems that there's nobody for the kids in theaudience to strongly identify with. I guess you could say that the Disneytradition lives, but that the Disney magic still remains elusive.Advertisement