At the beginning of this film,Richard Pryoris clearlynervous. He is back on a stage for the first time since he set himself on fire.That means he is working with the stand-up comedian's greatest handicap, theaudience's awareness of his vulnerability. Whatever else they do, comics mustproject utter confidence in their material, and when Pryor had his accident, healso had his whole hip image blown out from under him. So it's a shaky start.He begins by almost defiantly using the word "fuck" as anincantation, employing it not so much for shock value (does it still have any?)as for punctuation. His timing is a little off. He is not, at first, thesupremely confident, cocky Richard Pryor of his earlier films. But as he getsrolling, as he populates the stage with a whole series of characters, we watchthe emergence of a Richard Pryor who is older, wiser, and funnier than before.And the last fifty or sixty minutes of this film are extraordinary. Advertisement“Richard Pryor Live On The Sunset Strip” wasfilmed at the Hollywood Palladium, down at the unfashionable east end of thatlegendary street of rock clubs, restaurants, hookers and heroes, hot-pillowmotels, and some of the most expensive real estate in the world. The movieopens with a montage of the strip's neon signs (including the Chateau Marmont,where     John Belushi    died). Then it cuts inside to the Palladium auditorium, andPryor walks onstage and lays claim to being the most talented one-man stageshow in existence right now.His gift is to be funny and painfullyself-analytical at the same time. Like     Bill Cosby    , he gets a lot of hismaterial out of memories of growing up black in America. But he sees deeperthan Cosby, and his vignettes capture small truths and build them into anattitude. In the brilliant middle sections of this film, he uses just his ownvoice and body to create little one-act plays, such as the one where he recallsworking in a Mafia-owned nightclub in Ohio. In that one, his Italian-American-gangsteraccent is perfectly heard; in another skit, about the animals in Africa, heturns into a gifted physical comedian, getting laughs out of his impressions ofthe movements of gazelles, water buffaloes, and lions--and ending with ahilarious observation of the body language of two whites passing each other onthe street in black Africa.The whole middle passage of the film is thatgood. The last twenty minutes is one of the most remarkable marriages of comedyand truth I have ever seen. He talks with great honesty about his drugaddiction, his accident, and how his life has changed since he stopped usingdrugs. He confesses that in the three weeks before his accident, he holed upalone in his room with his cocaine pipe, which talked to him in reassuring,seductive tones uncannily like Richard Nixon's. Then a friend, the actor JimBrown, came to see him, and asked him flat-out, "Whatcha gonna do?"There was nothing he wanted to do but hide in drugs. What he finally did wasset himself on fire.AdvertisementI saw the film the same day that actor ShayDuffin opened his one-man evening with     Brendan Behan    at the Apollo TheaterCenter in Chicago. The papers that day carried the news that Belushi hadoverdosed. Behan, of course, killed himself with alcohol. Some day, inevitably,an actor will give us an evening with John Belushi. The dramatic structure isall there, for the Behans and Belushis: The genius, the laughter, and thedoomed drive to self-destruction. Watching “Richard Pryor Live On The SunsetStrip”, a breathtaking performance by a man who came within a hair of killinghimself with drugs, was like a gift, as if Pryor had come back from the dead toperform in his own one-man memory of himself. It is good we still have him. Heis better than ever.