A few days after “Q” was screened at the Cannes Film Festival(under its original title, “The Winged Serpent”), the following conversationtook place between Samuel Z. Arkoff, the film's producer, and Rex Reed, thecritic:Reed: Sam! I just saw “The Winged Serpent”! Whata surprise! All that dreck--and right in the middle of it, a great Method performanceby     Michael Moriarty    !Arkoff: The dreck was my idea.I believe him. Arkoff has been producing filmsfor thirty years now, and even if he was honored with a retrospective at theMuseum of Modern Art, his heart still lies with shots of a giant flying lizardattacking a woman in a bikini on top of a Manhattan skyscraper. He's just thatkinda guy. There are, in fact, several shots in “Q” that owe their ancestry toSam Arkoff. I am aware, of course, that     Larry Cohen    gets credit for havingwritten and directed this movie, but where would Cohen or any other director bewithout the rich heritage of a quarter-century of American-InternationalPictures made by Sam Arkoff? Here are examples of the shots I have in mind:Advertisement· The camera looks straight down at terrifiedcitizens fleeing from a menace. They run crazily across the street. Some runaway from the camera, some toward it, so that you can't tell for sure where themenace is, and the shot can be intercut with shots of a menace approaching fromany direction.    · The hero empties his machine gun into thegiant serpent and turns away from a window to issue orders: "Everybodyhold your positions!" Just then the serpent reappears behind him.    · There are False Serpent Alarms in which peopleget hit from behind by toy birds, chairs, and their boyfriends.    ·     David Carradine    says, "He doesn't dieeasy." You get the idea. “Q” is another silly monster movie. But think howlong it's been since we had another silly monster movie. There was a timeduring the golden age of Sam Arkoff's career when there were lots of monstermovies. Remember, for example, “Attack of the Crab Monsters”, “Viking Women andthe Sea Serpent”, “Creature from the Haunted Sea”, and “The Wasp Woman”. But inthe last few years Creature Features have been replaced by Dead TeenagerMovies, and instead of awful special effects of a monster going berserk, we getworse shots of a homicidal maniac going berserk.“Q” returns to the basic formula, in which aprehistoric creature terrorizes the city. In this case, the creature is aQuetzalcoatl, a mythical Aztec monster with wings and four claws. It apparentlyhas been brought back into existence in connection with some shady humansacrifices at the Museum of Natural History (although this particular subplotis very muddled). It lives in a nest at the top of the Chrysler Building, layseggs, and terrorizes helpless New Yorkers, who are not sure if this is a realmonster or another crazy circulation stunt by Rupert Murdoch.Rex Reed was right, though, about the Methodperformance by Michael Moriarty. In the middle of this exploitation movie,there's Moriarty, rolling his eyes, improvising dialogue, and acting creepy.He's fun to watch, especially in the scene where he names his terms for leadingthe cops to the lizard. The cast also includes David Carradine, RichardRoundtree, and     Candy Clark    , good actors all, but you have to be awfully good notto be upstaged by the death throes of a dying Quetzalcoatl.Still to be answered: How did one Quetzalcoatlget pregnant?Advertisement