Robert Towne's “Personal Best” tells the story of two womenwho are competitors for pentathlete berths on the 1980 U.S. Olympics team--theteam that did not go to Moscow. The women are attracted to one another almostat first sight, and what begins as a tentative exploration develops into a loverelationship. Then the romance gets mixed up with the ferocity of top-levelsports competition.What distinguishes “Personal Best” is that itcreates specific characters--flesh-and-blood people with interestingpersonalities, people I cared about. “Personal Best” also seems knowledgeableabout its two subjects, which are the weather of these women's hearts, and theworld of Olympic sports competition.AdvertisementIt is a movie containing the spontaneity oflife. It's about living, breathing, changeable people and because theirrelationships seems to be so deeply felt, so important to them, we'refascinated by what may happen next. The movie stars     Mariel Hemingway    andPatrice Donnelly as the two women track stars,     Scott Glenn    as their coach, and     Kenny Moore    as the Olympic swimmer who falls in love with Hemingway late in thefilm. These four people are so right for the roles it's almost scary; it makesus sense the difference between performances that are technically excellent andother performances, like these, that may sometimes be technically rough butalways find the correct emotional note.Mariel Hemingway plays a young, naive naturalathlete. We sense that she always has been under the coaching thumb of herfather, a perfectionist, and that her physical excellence has been won at thecost of emotional maturity. She knows everything about working out, and next tonothing about her heart, her sexuality, her own identity. She loses animportant race at a preliminary meet, is sharply handled by the father, getssick to her stomach, is obviously emotionally distraught.Patrice Donnelly, as a more experienced athlete,tries to comfort the younger girl. In a dormitory room that night, they talk.Donnelly shares whatever wisdom she has about training and running and winning.They smoke a joint. They kid around. They arm wrestle. At this point, watchingthe film, I had an interesting experience. I did not already know that thecharacters in the film were homosexual, but I found myself thinking that thescene was so erotically charged that, "if Hollywood could be honest,"it would develop into a love scene. Just then, it did! "This isscary," Donnelly says, and then she kisses Hemingway, who returns thekiss. “Personal Best” is not simply about their romance, however, it is aboutany relationship in which the trust necessary for love is made to compete withthe total egotism necessary for championship sports. Can two people love eachother, and at the same time compete for the same berth on an Olympic team?Scott Glenn, the coach, doesn't think so. He accepts the fact of his two stars'homosexuality, but what bothers him is a suspicion that Donnelly may be usingemotional blackmail to undercut Hemingway's performance.This is a very physical movie, one of thehealthiest and sweatiest celebrations of physical exertion I can remember.There is a lot of nudity in the film--not only erotic nudity, although there issome of that, but also locker room and steam room nudity, and messing around nuditythat has an unashamed, kidding freshness to it. One scene that shocks someviewers occurs between Mariel Hemingway and Kenny Moore, when he gets up to goto the bathroom and she decides to follow along; the scene is typical of thekind of unforced, natural spontaneity in the whole film. The characters in “PersonalBest” seem to be free to have real feelings. It is filled with theuncertainties, risks, cares, and rewards of real life, and it considers itscharacters' hearts and minds, and sees their sexuality as an expression oftheir true feelings for each other.Advertisement