Arriving after two years of sound and fury, after all thenews items on the financial pages and alarms and excursions in the movie tradepress, Francis Ford Coppola's “One From The Heart” is an interesting productionbut not a good movie. From Coppola, the brilliant orchestrator of “ApocalypseNow” and the “Godfather” films, it is a major disappointment. This must be thefirst movie in history to arrive with more publicity about its productiontechniques than about its stars. Everybody knows that Coppola used experimentalvideo equipment to view and edit his movie, sealing himself into a trailerjammed with electronic gear so that he could see on TV what the camera operatorwas seeing through the lens. Of course the film itself was photographed on thesame old celluloid that the movies have been using forever; Coppola used TVprimarily as a device to speed up the process of viewing each shot and tryingout various editing combinations. (Or, as an industry wisecrack had it,"He took an $8 million project and used the latest advances in video tobring it in for $23 million.") AdvertisementIf “One From The Heart” is the sort of film thisprocess inspires, then Coppola should abandon it. But of course the process isneutral; films live or die according to an inner rhythm of their own. The mostdismal thing about “One From The Heart” is that it lacks those rhythms. It is aballet of graceful and complex camera movements occupying magnificent sets, andsomehow the characters get lost in the process. There was never a moment in thisfilm when I cared about what was happening to the people in it, and only onemoment (a cameo by     Allen Goorwitz    as an irate restaurant owner) when I feltthat an actor's spontaneity was able to sneak past Coppola's smothering styleand into the audience.The storyteller of “     The Godfather    ” has become atechnician here. There are chilling parallels between Coppola's obsessivecontrol of this film and the character of Harry Caul, the wiretapper inCoppola's “     The Conversation    ”(1974), who cared only about technical results andrefused to let himself think about human consequences. Movies are a lot ofdifferent things, but most of the best ones are about people and for people,and “One From The Heart” pays little heed to the complexities of the humanheart. Indeed, it seems almost on guard against the actors who occupy itscarefully architectured scenes. They are hardly ever allowed to dominate. Theyare figures in a larger pattern, one that diminishes them, that sees them aspart of the furniture. They aren't given many close-ups; they're often bathedin garish red glows or sickly blues and greens; they're placed in front ofdistractingly flamboyant sets or lost in badly choreographed crowds; andsometimes they're cut off in the middle of an emotion or a piece of businessbecause the relentlessly programmed camera has business elsewhere.I've neglected, in fact, to name the actors, ordescribe the characters they play. That's not so much of an oversight in areview of a film like this. The two main characters (     Teri Garr    and FredericForrest) inhabit a Las Vegas of disappointment, ennui, and glittering lights.For a brief time, they break out of their humdrum lives and meet new lovers(     Raul Julia    and     Nastassja Kinski    ) who tease them with dreams and fantasies. Theunderlying story notion, I suppose, is that ordinary little people have a greatnight on the town, but the night and the town in Coppola's production sooverwhelm them that they remain ordinary little people throughout.AdvertisementThere are small pleasures in this movie. One isHarry Dean Stanton's walk-through as the seedy owner of a junkyard, althoughCoppola resists showing us Stanton's most effective tool, his expressive eyes.Kinski, as a circus tightrope walker, has a beauty much more mature than in “     Tess    ”and a wonderful moment when she explains "to make a circus girl disappear,all you have to do is blink your eyes." Garr is winsome, but her rolemakes her thanklessly passive, and Forrest (the Oscar nominee from “The Rose”)is almost transparent here, he's given such a nebbish to play.