"An Officer and a Gentleman" is the best movie aboutlove that I've seen in a long time. Maybe that's because it's not about"love" as a Hollywood concept, but about love as growth, as learningto accept other people for who and what they are. There's romance in thismovie, all right, and some unusually erotic sex, but what makes the film sospecial is that the sex and everything else is presented within the context ofits characters finding out who they are, what they stand for and what they willnot stand for. Advertisement Themovie takes place in and around a Naval Aviation Officer Candidate School inWashington state. Every thirteen weeks, a new group of young men and women comehere to see if they can survive a grueling session of physical and academictraining. If they pass, they graduate to flight school. About half fail. AcrossPuget Sound, the local young women hope for a chance to meet an eligible futureofficer. They dream of becoming officers' wives, and in some of their families,we learn, this dream has persisted for two generations. After the first month of training, there is a Regimental Ball. The women turnout with hope in their hearts and are sized up by the candidates. A man and awoman (Richard GereandDebra Winger) pair off. We know more about them thanthey know about one another. He is a loner and a loser, whose mother died whenhe was young and whose father is a drunk. She is the daughter of an officercandidate who loved and left her mother twenty years before. They dance, theytalk, they begin to date, they fall in love. She would like to marry him, butshe refuses to do what the other local girls are willing to do -- get pregnantor fake pregnancy to trap a future officer. For his part, the man is afraid ofcommitment, afraid of love, incapable of admitting that he cares for someone.All he wants is a nice, simple affair, and a clean break at the end of OCS. Thislove story is told in counterpoint with others. There's the parallel affairbetween another candidate and another local girl. She is willing to trap herman. His problem is, he really loves her. He's under the thumb of his family,but he's willing to do the right thing, if she'll give him the chance. Allof the off-base romances are backdrops for the main event, which is thetraining program. The candidates are under the supervision of a tough drillsergeant (Lou Gossett, Jr.) who has seen them come and seen them go and isabsolutely uncompromising in his standards. There's a love-hate relationshipbetween the sergeant and his trainees, especially the rebellious, resentfulGere. And Lou Gossett, Jr. does such a fine job of fine-tuning the line betweenhis professional standards and his personal emotions that the performancedeserves its Academy Award. Advertisement Themovie's method is essentially to follow its characters through the thirteenweeks, watching them as they change and grow. That does wonders for the lovestories, because by the end of the film we know these people well enough tocare about their decisions and to have an opinion about what they should do. Inthe case of Gere and Winger, the romance is absolutely absorbing because it'sso true to life, right down to the pride that causes these two to pretend theydon't care for each other as much as they really do. When it looks as if Gereis going to throw it all away -- is going to turn his back on a good woman wholoves him, just because he's too insecure to deal with her love -- the movieisn't just playing with emotions, it's being very perceptive about humanbehavior. Butmaybe I'm being too analytical about why "An Officer and a Gentleman"is so good. This is a wonderful movie precisely because it's so willing to dealwith matters of the heart. Love stories are among the rarest of movies thesedays (and when we finally get one, it's likely to involve anextra-terrestrial). Maybe they're rare because writers and filmmakers no longerbelieve they understand what goes on between modern men and women. "AnOfficer and a Gentleman" takes chances, takes the time to know and developits characters, and by the time this movie's wonderful last scene comes along,we know exactly what's happening, and why, and it makes us very happy.