"Moonlighting" is a wickedly pointed movie that takesa simple little story, tells it with humor and truth, and turns it into a knifein the side of the Polish government. In its own way, this response to thecrushing of Solidarity is as powerful as Andrzej Wajda's "Man ofIron." It also is more fun. Themovie takes place in London, during the weeks just before and after the banningof the Solidarity movement in Poland. It begins, actually, in Warsaw, with amystifying scene in which a group of plotters are scheming to smuggle somehardware past British customs. They're plotters, all right; their plot is tomove into a small house in London and remodel it, knocking out walls, paintingceilings, making it into a showplace for the Polish government official who haspurchased it. Advertisement Theofficial's plan is simplicity itself: By bringing Polish workers to London ontourist visas, he can get the remodeling done for a fraction of what Britishworkman would cost him. At the same time, the workers can earn good wages thatthey can take back to Poland and buy bicycles with. The only thing nobodycounts on is the upheaval after Solidarity is crushed and travel to and fromPoland is strictly regulated. JeremyIrons, of "The French Lieutenant's Woman," plays the lead in thefilm. He's the only Polish workman who can speak English. Acting as foreman, heguides his team of men through the pitfalls of London and safely into the housethey're going to remodel. He advises them to keep a low profile, while heventures out to buy the groceries and (not incidentally) to read thenewspapers. When he finds out about the crisis in Poland, he keeps it a secretfrom his comrades. Thedaily life of the renovation project falls into a pattern, which the film'sdirector,Jerzy Skolimowski, intercuts with the adventures of his hero. JeremyIrons begins to steal things: newspapers, bicycles, frozen turkeys. He concoctsan elaborate scheme to defraud the local supermarket, and some of the movie'sbest scenes involve the subtle timing of his shoplifting scam, which involvesthe misrepresentation of cash-register receipts. He needs to steal food becausehe's running out of money, and he knows his group can't easily go home again.There's also a quietly hilarious, and slightly sad, episode involving asalesgirl in a blue-jeans store. Irons, pretending to be more naive than he is,tries to pick the girl up. She's having none of it. "Moonlighting"invites all kinds of interpretations. You can take this simple story and set itagainst the events of the early 80's, and see it as a kind of parable. Yourinterpretation is as good as mine. Is the house itself Poland, and the workmenSolidarity -- rebuilding it from within, before an authoritarian outside forceintervenes? Or is this movie about the heresy of substituting Western values(and jeans and turkeys) for a home-grown orientation? Or is it about themanipulation of the working classes by the intelligentsia? Or is it simply afrontal attack on the Communist Party bosses who live high off the hog whilethe workers are supposed to follow the rules? Advertisement Likeall good parables, "Moonlighting" contains not one but manypossibilities. What needs to be insisted upon, however, is how much fun thismovie is. Skolimowski, a Pole who has lived and worked in England for severalyears, began writing this film on the day that Solidarity was crushed, and hefilmed it, on a small budget and with a small crew, in less than two months: Hehad it ready for the 1982 Cannes Film Festival where it was a major success.It's successful, I think, because it tells an interesting narrative in astraightforward way. Skolimowski is a natural storyteller. You can interpretand discuss "Moonlighting" all night. During the movie, you'll bemore interested in whether Irons gets away with that frozen turkey.