It all comes down to the difference between a "concertfilm" and a documentary. “Let’s Spend The Night Together” is essentially aconcert film recording an "ideal" Rolling Stones concert, puttogether out of footage shot at several outdoor and indoor Stones concerts. Ifthat's what you want, enjoy this movie. I wanted more. I would have beeninterested in a film exploring the phenomenon of the Rolling Stones, who billthemselves as the greatest rock 'n' roll band in the world, and are certainlythe most durable. I would have liked to know more about the staging of a modernrock concert, which is arguably the most sensually overpowering nonwartimespectacle in human history, and which may have been invented, in form and inits focus on a single charismatic individual, at Hitler's mass rallies. I wouldhave liked to know more aboutMick Jagger; how does it feel for an educated,literate, civilized man in his early forties, with a head for figures and agift for contracts and negotiations, to strut with a codpiece before tens ofthousands of screaming, drug-crazed fans? Advertisement“Let’s Spend The Night Together” does not answerthese questions nor, to be fair, was it intended to. It is wall-to-wall music.The movie sells well in home video form; it's a cinematic Top Forty with Jaggerand the Stones performing many of their best-known hits. But after a certainpoint it grows monotonous. At the beginning of the film I was caught up in theStones' waves of sound energy, and fascinated by Jagger's exhilarating, limitlessonstage energy. By the end of the film I was simply stunned, and not even"(Can't Get No) Satisfaction" could quite rouse me.The movie was directed by     Hal Ashby    , a featuredirector whose credits include “     Shampoo    ” and “The Last Detail”. It wasreportedly photographed with twenty-one cameras, under the direction ofcinematographers     Caleb Deschanel    and Gerald Feil. They've got a lot of goodstuff on film, but they haven't broken any new ground. The best rockdocumentary is still “     Woodstock    ” (1970), and the best concert film is probablyBette Midler's “     Divine Madness    !” (1980). The Stones have been filmed morepowerfully before, too, in “Gimme Shelter”, the stunning 1969 documentary ofthe Stones' Altamont concert, at which a man was killed.The worst passages in “Let’s Spend The NightTogether” are the songs in which Ashby and his collaborators try to getseriously symbolic. There is, for example, a montage of images from a sufferingworld: starving children, a Buddhist monk immolating himself, the skeleton-likebodies of famine victims, decapitated heads of political prisoners, etc. Theidea, I guess, is to provide visual counterpoint to the Stones' apocalypticimages. The effect is disgusting; this particular movie has not earned theright to exploit those real images.AdvertisementThe best passages involve Jagger, who is justabout the whole show, with the exception of a truncated     Keith Richards    solo anda strange interlude during which would-be beauty queens invade the stage anddance along to "Honky Tonk Woman." Jagger is, as always, the arroganthermaphrodite, strutting proudly before his fans and conducting the songs, theband, and the audience with his perfectly timed body movements. There is anexciting moment when he climbs down into the crowd and, carrying a hand-held mike,sings as he is lifted on a surge of security guards from one side of theauditorium to another.It's fun, but it's about the only time we seethe audience in this movie; Ashby apparently made a directorial decision tokeep the audience in long-shot, making them into a collective, pulsating mass.But that limits his possibilities for setting up visual rhythms in his editing.In such landmark rock films as “A Hard Day’s Night” (1964) and “Woodstock”, theaudience provided not only counterpoint but also emotional feedback. “Let’sSpend The Night Together” seems to have been pretty closely calculated as justsimply the record of a performance, and if that's what you want, that's whatyou get.