Clint Eastwood's “Firefox” is a slick, muscular thriller thatcombines espionage with science fiction. The movie works like a well-craftedmachine, and it's about a well-crafted machine. The “Firefox” of the title is atop-secret Russian warplane capable of flying six times the speed of soundwhile remaining invisible on radar. Eastwood's mission, if he chooses to acceptit: Infiltrate the Soviet Union disguised as a Las Vegas drug smuggler, andthen steal the Firefox by flying it to the West.This is one of those basic movie plots that cangenerate a lot of entertainment if it's handled properly. “Firefox” knows theterritory. It complicates things slightly by making Eastwood a Vietnam veteranwho is sometimes overcome by the hallucination that he's still in combat. Themovie calls it Post-Combat Stress Syndrome. But the CIA man who recruits himexplains that the government isn't much worried, because you don't have thesyndrome while you're in combat, you see, but only afterward. Somebody ought tocompile a textbook of psychology as practiced in movies.AdvertisementAnyway, Eastwood trains for the mission, isdisguised with a mustache and horn-rim glasses, and survives some uncomfortablemoments at Moscow customs before he makes it into Russia. Then he makes contactwith a confederation of spies and double agents who lead him to a Jewishdissident who is such a brilliant scientist that he is still being allowed towork on Firefox. Why does the dissident want to work on it? Because he knowshow Eastwood could steal the plane. All of these scenes include obligatory shots,which are kind of fun to anticipate, if you're a fan of the AlistairMaclean-James Bond-"     Mission: Impossible    "-“The Guns of Navarone” genre.The one indispensable scene is probably the Introduction of the McGuffin. AMcGuffin, you will remember, was what     Alfred Hitchcock    called that element ofthe plot that everybody thinks is important. In this case, it's the Firefox, along, sleek, cruel-looking machine that looks like a cross between a guidedmissile and a DeLorean. Eastwood and the camera circle it lovingly; this is thesexiest shot in a movie without a romantic subplot. The movie's climax involvesEastwood's attempt to fly this plane north to the Arctic Circle, make arefueling rendezvous, and then take it on home. His flight is intercut withcomic opera scenes involving members of the Russian high command, who argue andbicker while looming over an illuminated map that casts an eerie underlight ontheir faces, making them look like ghouls from old E.C. comics.Does Eastwood make it out in one piece? Does hebring along the plane? I wouldn't dream of giving away the plot. But I will saythat the movie's climax is a sensational high-altitude dogfight between twodifferent Firefoxes, and that as Eastwood occupies the Firefox cockpit,surrounded by video screens and computer displays of flight patterns andmissile trajectories, it looks as if Dirty Harry has died and gone to Atariheaven. The special effects are really pretty good in this movie. The planeslooked surprisingly real to me, and the choreography of the dogfight was notonly realistic but understandable. There's one sensational chase sequencethat's an homage to “Star Wars”. Remember the “Star Wars” scene where the twoships chased each other between the towering walls of the city in space?Eastwood and his Russian pursuer rocket through a crevice between two icecliffs, and it looks great even while we're realizing it's logicallyimpossible. I guess that goes for the whole movie.