The delicious moments in an Agatha Christie film are supposedto come at the end, when the detective (in this case, the redoubtable HerculePoirot) gathers everyone in the sitting room and toys with their guiltcomplexes before finally fingering the murderer. Well, there are deliciousmoments in the final fifteen minutes of “Evil Under The Sun, but what Iespecially liked about this Christie were the opening scenes the setup. Theyhad a style and irreverence that reminded me curiously of “Beat the Devil”, withBogart andRobert Morleychewing up the scenery. “Evil Under The Sun” is not,alas, as good as “Beat the Devil”, but it is the best of the recent group ofChristie retreads (which include “Murder on the Orient Express”, “Death On TheNile”, and “The Mirror Crack’d”). AdvertisementIt begins in the usual way, with a corpse. Itcontinues in obligatory fashion with the gathering of a large number ofcolorful and eccentric suspects in an out-of-the-way spot, which just happensto also be the destination of Hercule Poirot. It continues with the discoveryof another corpse, with the liberal distribution of gigantic clues and withPoirot's lip-smacking summary of the evidence. It's the cast that makes EVILmore fun than the previous manifestations of this identical plot. As Poirot,     Peter Ustinov    creates a wonderful mixture of the mentally polished andphysically maladroit. He has a bit of business involving a dip in the sea thatis so perfectly timed and acted it tells us everything we ever wanted to knowabout Poirot's appetite for exercise. He is so expansive, so beaming, sosuperior, in the opening scenes that he remains spiritually present throughoutthe film, even when he's not on screen.All of the rest of the cast are suspects. Theyinclude     Maggie Smith    , a former actress who now runs an elegant spa in theAdriatic Sea;     Diana Rigg    , as her jealous contemporary;     Sylvia Miles    and JamesMason, as a rich couple who produce shows on Broadway;     Jane Birkin    and NicholasClay as a young couple constantly arguing over his roving eye;     Colin Blakely    asa rich knight who's been taken by a gold digger; Emily Hone as the young newwife; and     Roddy McDowall    as a bitchy gossip columnist who knows the dirt abouteverybody. The newly discovered corpse belongs to one of the above. The murdereris one (or more) of the above. Nothing else I could say about the crime wouldbe fair.I can observe, however, that one of the delightsof the movies made from Agatha Christie novels is their almost complete lack ofpassion: They substitute wit and style. Nobody really cares who gets bumpedoff, and nobody really misses the departed. What's important is that all theright clues be distributed, so that Poirot and the audience can pick them up,mull them over, and discover the culprit. Perhaps, then, one of the reasons Iliked “Evil Under The Sun” was that this time, when Ustinov paused in hissummation (after verbally convicting everyone in the room), and it was clear hewas about to finger the real killer, I guessed the killer's identity, and I wasright. Well, half right. That's better than I usually do.Advertisement