One of the most endearing things about "Tootsie," amovie in whichDustin Hoffmanplays a middle-aged actress, is that the actressis able to carry most of her own scenes as herself - even if she weren't beingplayed by Hoffman. "Tootsie" works as a story, not as a gimmick. It also works as a lot of other things. "Tootsie" isthe kind of Movie with a capital M that they used to make in the 1940s, whenthey weren't afraid to mix up absurdity with seriousness, social comment withfarce, and a little heartfelt tenderness right in there with the laughs. Thismovie gets you coming and going. Advertisement Hoffmanstars as Michael Dorsey, a character maybe not unlike Hoffman himself in hisyounger days. Michael is a New York actor, bright, aggressive, talented - andunemployable. "You mean nobody in New York wants to hire me?" he askshis agent, incredulously. "I'd go farther than that, Michael," hisagent says. "Nobody in Hollywood wants to hire you, either." Michaelhas a bad reputation for taking stands, throwing tantrums, and interpretingroles differently than the director. How to get work? He goes with a friend(Teri Garr) to an audition for a soap opera. The character is a middle-agewoman hospital administrator. When his friend doesn't get the job, Michael goeshome, thinks, decides to dare, and dresses up in drag and goes to an auditionhimself. And, improvising brilliantly, he gets the role. Thatleads to "Tootsie's" central question: Can a 40-ish New York actorfind health, happiness and romance as a 40-ish New York actress? Dustin Hoffmanis actually fairly plausible as "Dorothy," the actress. If his voiceisn't quite right, a Southern accent allows it to squeak by. The wig and theglasses are a little too much, true, but in an uncanny way the woman played byHoffman looks like certain actual women who look like drag queens. Dorothymight have trouble passing in Evanston, but in Manhattan, nobody gives her asecond look. "Tootsie"might have been content to limit itself to the complications of New York lifein drag; it could have been "Victor/Victoria Visits Elaine's." Butthe movie's a little more ambitious than that. Michael Dorsey finds to hisinterest and amusement that Dorothy begins to take on a life of her own. She'sa liberated eccentric, a woman who seems sort of odd and funny at first, butgrows on you and wins your admiration by standing up for what's right. Oneof the things that bothers Dorothy is the way the soap opera's chauvinistdirector (Dabney Coleman) mistreats and insults the attractive young actress(Jessica Lange) who plays Julie, a nurse on the show. Dorothy and Julie becomefriends and finally close confidants. Dorothy's problem, however, is that theman inside her is gradually growing uncontrollably in love with Julie. Advertisement Thereare other complications. Julie's father (Charles Durning), a gruff, friendly,no-nonsense sort, lonely but sweet, falls in love with Dorothy. Michael hardlyknows how to deal with all of this, and his roommate (Bill Murray) isn't muchhelp. Surveying Dorothy in one of her new outfits, he observes drily,"Don't play hard to get." "Tootsie"has a lot of fun with its plot complications; we get almost every possiblevariation on the theme of mistaken sexual identities. The movie also manages tomake some lighthearted but well-aimed observations about sexism. It also pokessatirical fun at soap operas, New York show business agents and the Manhattansocial pecking order. And it turns out to be a touching love story, after all -so touching that you may be surprised how moved you are at the conclusion ofthis comedy.