Clint Eastwoodproduced and directed "Honkytonk Man,"and stars in it as a Depression-era loser who drifts through the South with hisyoung nephew, aiming eventually to get to Nashville and maybe get on the GrandOl' Opry. The movie's credits say the screenplay is by Clancy Carlile, based onhis own novel, but in speculating on what drew Eastwood to this project, I cameacross this entry in Ephraim Katz's Film Encyclopedia: "Eastwood, Clint. Actor, director. Born on May 31, 1930, inSan Francisco. A child of the Depression, he spent his early boyhood trailing afather who pumped gas along dusty roads all over the West Coast . . ." Advertisement Theentry goes on to list the usual odd jobs (logger, steel-furnace stoker) thatall actors seem to hold down on their way to stardom, but Id read enough tosupport my intuition that "Honkytonk Man" means a lot to Eastwood inways that may not be immediately apparent. Thisis a sweet, whimsical, low-key movie, a movie that makes you feel good withoutpressing you too hard. It provides Eastwood with a screen character who is thecomplete opposite of the patented Eastwood tough guys, and provides a role ofnearly equal performance for his son, Kyle, as a serious, independent andutterly engaging young nephew named Whit. What happens to them on the road isnot quite as important in this movie as what happens between them. Themovie starts with Eastwood drunk behind the wheel of a big 1930s touring car,knocking over the windmill on his latest return to the old homestead. He's sortof a Hank Williams type. His family has seen this act before. They put him tobed and hide the bottle. The next day, with an ominous cough, Eastwood talksabout his dream of heading for Nashville and cashing in some old IOUs. He's asinger and a songwriter, luckless but not untalented, and he thinks he couldmake it onto the Opry. Hewants to take the kid along. After some hesitation, the kid's mother (VernaBloom) agrees, mostly because she hopes her son can ride herd on Eastwood andkeep him reasonably sober. She makes her son promise not to drink or foolaround with women (thus putting her finger unerringly on one thing he did thenight before, and another that he hopes to do as soon as possible). Old grandpa(John McIntire) also decides to go along for the ride; he's got some people inTennessee he hasn't seen in 40 years. Advertisement Theroad part of the picture is picaresque, photographed through a haze of romanceand nostalgia, and spiced up with a visit to a gambling house and an encounterwith a very individualistic young woman (Alexa Kenin) who also decides to jointhe traveling party. She has an amazing gift for couching the most ordinarysentiments in romantic prose. Themovie's best scenes are the ones Eastwood plays in Nashville, during anaudition at the Opry and, later, in a recording studio. He sings his songs withthe kind of bone-weariness that doesn't hurt the right kind of country song,and there's a special moment in the studio when a supporting musician lends ahand. The movie turns out to be about realizing your dreams after all, which issort of a surprise in a story where even the high points are only bittersweet. Thisis a special movie. In making it, Eastwood was obviously moving away from hisDirty Harry image, but that's nothing new; his spectacular success in violentmovies tends to distract us from his intriguing and challenging career as thedirector and/or star of such offbeat projects as "Bronco Billy" and"Play Misty for Me." He seems to have a personal stake in this story,and we begin to feel it, too. Sometimes the simplest country songs are justtelling the facts.