Apart from its other qualities, which are many,AlanRudolph's “Choose Me” is an audaciously intriguingmovie. Its main purpose, indeed, may be to intrigue us -- as other films aim tothrill or arouse or mystify. There is hardly a moment in the whole film when Iknew for sure what was going to happen next, yet I didn't feel manipulated; Ifelt as if the movie were giving itself the freedom to be completelyspontaneous.The movie begins with strangers talking to eachother. One of the strangers is a radio talk show host. Her name is Dr. Love,and she gives advice to the lovelorn over the radio (most of her advice seemsto be variations on "That's not my problem"). One of her regularcallers, we learn, is a woman named Eve who owns a bar. One day a mentalpatient named Mickey, a guy whose past seems filled with mysterious connectionsto the CIA, the space program, and the Russians, walks out of a closed ward andinto the bar and meets Eve. A few days later, Dr. Love, hoping to do someresearch into the ways that we ordinary folk live, adopts an assumed name andgoes looking for a roommate. She finds Eve and moves in with her, and neitherwoman knows who the other woman really is. They also don't make the connectionthat Eve is a regular caller to the radio program (highly unlikely, since Dr.Love speaks with an accent). None of this is really as hard to follow as itsounds. And since one of the pleasures of this movie is the leisurely andlogical way it explores the implications of mistaken identity, I'm not going towrite another word about the confusions the characters get involved in.      “Choose Me” is a deliberate throwback to thefilm noir of the 1940s -- to those movies made up of dark streets and wetpavements, hookers under streetlamps, pimps in shiny postwar Studebakers, andpeople who smoke a lot. It's also about lonely people, but it's not one ofthose half-witted TV movies about singles bars and single women. It's aboutsmart, complicated people who are trying to clear a space for themselves andusing romance as an excavating tool.      The performances are key to this strategy. Thebest thing in the movie is Genevive Bujold's performance as Dr. Love. She isinteresting, if detached, as the radio personality, but when love finally doestouch her life, she is so unabashedly open and confessional and red-faced andsincere that we want to hug her. Bujold just gets better and better; coming sosoon after her good work in “     Tightrope    ,” this is a reminder of how manydifferent kinds of roles she can play so well.AdvertisementKeithCarradineis the drifter with the dangerous past.We are never quite sure how seriously to take him, and that's the idea behindhis performance, I think: He is able to quite sincerely tell two differentwomen he loves them and wants to marry them, and the funny thing is, we believehim, both times. Eve, the former hooker who owns a bar, is played byLesleyAnnWarren. It's another good performance, nervous andon-edge; she's the kind of woman who seeks a different man every night as aprotection against winding up with the same guy for a whole lifetime in a row.There are other intriguing characters in this story, most notably Rae DawnChong as a cute young alcoholic with a weird marriage, a naive way of trustingstrangers, and dreamy plans of becoming a poet someday. Her husband (PatrickBauchau) begins to get real tired of seeing theCarradine character, who through a series of misunderstandings seems to specializein robbing him of poker pots, dates, and the attentions of his wife.All of these people interact throughout thewhole movie without “Choose Me” ever settling into familiar patterns. It's asif Rudolph wanted to tell a story as it might actually have happened, withcoincidental meetings, dumb misunderstandings, random chance, and the endlesssurprises of human nature. At the end of the movie we haven't learned anythingin particular, but we have met these people and their loneliness andpunch-drunk optimism, and we have followed them a little time through thenight.