“Alphabet City” is the first teenage gangster movie. We’ve hadmovies before where the kids were gangsters, but this is the first movie wherethey’ve taken all the clichés from those black-and-white Warner Brothersgangster classics of the 1930s, and crossed them with punk, angst, and JamesDean. The result is one of the silliest movies of the year. The movie’s about Johnny, a 19-year-old kid who is, we learnfrom the movie’s publicity releases, the “King of Alphabet City.” That’s theLower East Side of Manhattan, where the avenues are named after letters, andevery street corner has a drive-in drug dealer. Advertisement Johnnyis some cool guy. He is a collector for the mob. He torches buildings – eventhe one his family lives in. He intimidates the owners of nightclubs where heis too young to be served. He keeps his lieutenants in line. He’s so busy, it’snot until halfway through the movie that we learn, almost as an afterthought,that he has a wife and baby. His wife is an artist with a loft in SoHo. Sure. Lifehas been filled with accomplishment for young Johnny, although his greatestaccomplishment – growing up in Alphabet City and becoming a drug dealer withoutpersonally developing a habit – is probably the hardest one to believe. We’veseen movies set on these streets before. InMartin Scorsese’s “Mean Streets,”Harvey Keitelplayed the Italian-American kid who was the collector for themob. But Scorsese knew Little Italy; he grew up there. He knew that Keitel’scharacter should be guilt-ridden, incompetent, and scared witless. The lastthing we can believe is Johnny as the king of streets that not even realgangsters feel safe walking down. Nomatter. This isn’t social realism; it’s an impressionistic fantasy, directed byAmos Poe, who once made an underground film named “Subway Riders” that did awonderful job of evoking the loneliness and terror of the streets. In “Alpha­betCity,” he makes the whole city into a set design, bathing the night streets inlurid neon colors and allowing his characters to throw shadows that are threestories high. Fine, except that John­ny, the inhabitant of this Edward Hopperworld, somehow loses his way about halfway through and wanders into aroutinely-plotted exploitation film. There’s a scene where the Mafia comesgunning for him, and Johnny has to try to save his wife and child. There’s ashootout in an elevator, a quick getaway, and an absolutely, howlinglyunbelievable climax in which a guy on a motorcycle rides to the rescue in thenick of time. Johnnyis played byVincent Spano, who is a good actor, even in this movie (you mayremember him from “Rumble Fish” and “Baby, It’s You”). There are otherinteresting performances:Michael Winslowas the luded-out street dealer who isJohnny’s friend, andZohra Lampertas Johnny’s weary mother, doing the ironingwhile her latest slob of a lover snores on the sofa. Maybe in another moviethese actors could have made their characters come alive. In “Alphabet City,”everything is smothered in the concept. Advertisement