This is the man who wrote some of the most scandalous books ofhis time, although today the same taboos are broken on “Dynasty” and “Dallas.”His books included Naked Lunch, The Ticket that Exploded, Junkie andExterminator. He was the godfather of the beatniks, he inspiredJack KerouacandAllen Ginsberg, and today whenever he gives a reading on a college campusor in a punk bar, the place is jammed with kids who cheer him as a survivor anda rebel. “Burroughs,” opening today at Facets, is a documentary of thewriter’s recent years. He walks through it in a series of business suits andneat fedora hats, and he is dispassionate for the most part. He has much to bedispassionate about. Born in St. Louis, educated at Harvard, briefly a medicalstudent in Vienna, discharged from the U.S. Army, he spent the late 1940s as anexile in Tangiers, smoking hashish, shooting heroin, sniffing cocaine and“having a good time… although little did I know.” Advertisement Backin New York at Columbia University, he was introduced to his wife, Joan, byfriends. “We thought,” says Allen Ginsberg in the film, “that they were equallytalented, equally intelligent – a perfect match.” William and Joan foundthemselves in Mexico City a few years later where, Burroughs recounts, she grewdepressed over his affairs with local boys and began to drink a bottle oftequila a day. One night during a drunken party, Burroughs suggested “ourWilliam Tell act” to his wife. She balanced a glass on her head, and his aimwas good enough to hit her square in the forehead. “Itwas just insanity,” he says dispassionately. The death was declared anaccident, and Ginsberg helpfully notes that the incident seemed to triggerBurroughs’ writing: “That’s when he started to get the juices flowing.” So muchfor Joan. Burroughs went on to write in London and Paris. Many of his booksfirst appeared in the notorious green-jacketed Olympia Press series from Paris,but eventually they could be sold openly in America, and as the beatniks becamethe hippies, Burroughs became some kind of counterculture saint. Didthat please him? The question is never asked. The most painful passages in thefilm deal with his son, Willie Jr., an alcoholic and speed freak – “the last ofthe beatniks” – who wrote a couple of books and then committed suicide duringthe filming. Father and son are awkward together; although they are bothanti-establishment rebels, it gives them nothing in common. “Burroughs”is a documentary portrait of a man who was willing to try everything, and whohas so far survived everything. The one thing you miss in the film is the soundof laughter. Advertisement