Alfred Hitchcockcalled “Rope” an “experiment that didn’t workout,” and he was happy to see it kept out of release for most of three decades.He was correct that it didn’t work out, but “Rope” remains one of the most interestingexperiments ever attempted by a major director working with big box-officenames, and it’s worth seeing this week during its revival at the Fine Artstheaters. Themovie starredJames Stewart, John Dall andFarley Grangerin a movie version ofa play that was inspired by the Leopold-Loeb murder case. In the play, twohomosexual college students become fascinated by their philosophy professor’sideas about the “innate superiority” of some people over others. Convinced theyhave found a victim who is inferior to them, they murder him, conceal his bodyin an unlocked trunk in their apartment, and then throw a dinner party with thetrunk as the brazen centerpiece of the living room. Advertisement Theplay depended, for its effect, on the fact that it was one continuous series ofactions. Once the characters have entered the room, there can’t be any jumps intime, or the suspense will be lost. The audience must know that the body isalways right there in the trunk. Theplay appealed to Hitchcock’s sense of the macabre and his fascination withsituations involving the inconvenience of dead bodies. But in translating theplay to the screen, he had to deal with that unity of time and space. All ofthe events had to take place in one uninterrupted act, and he arrived at thenovel idea of shooting the movie without any visible cuts, so that it wouldlook like one continuous shot. Hebuilt elaborate sets with movable walls on wheels. He choreographed his actorsso that they and the camera could perform intricate ballets withoutinterrupting the action. He loaded his camera with 10-¬minute magazines offilm, he arranged the screenplay in 10-minute sections, and at the end of eachsection he used an “invisible wipe” to get to the next magazine: The camera,for example, would move behind a chair at the end of one shot, and seem to bemoving out from behind it in the next. Thiswas, of course, an unnecessary gimmick. Although when a director cuts from oneshot to another it can seem as if time has passed, that is not necessarily thecase. Many films that deal with uninterrupted spans of time use a lot of cuts:for example, “My Dinner with Andre,” which, despite constant cutting, neverseems to miss a single bite of food or morsel of conversation. “Whilewe were making ‘Rope,’” Stewart remembers, “I suggested to Hitch that since wewere filming a play, we ought to bring bleachers into the sound stage, and selltickets.” The final product seems curiously limp and unfocused, perhaps becauseHitchcock was handcuffed by denying himself the usual grammar of cameramovement and editing. Advertisement Inan ordinary movie, closer shots indicate more intensity, longer shots are moreobjective. Camera movement helps establish mood. Closeups punch home dramaticmoments. Cutaways, or “reaction shots,” make it clear who is reacting, andwhen. Although Hitchcock tried to choreograph his 10-minute takes so that thecamera would be where the drama demanded it, there are moments when it seems tobe in the wrong place at the wrong time. And that trunk spends so much time inthe foreground that we wonder why it’s not the immediate center of attention.