Los Angeles -- What I liked best aboutJamie Lee Curtisin“Halloween” was that she seemed too smart to get into such a terrifyingsituation. She wasn't one of your air-brain screaming teenagers, always runningright into the arms of the killer. She was a cool, intelligent young woman whofound it hard to believe she was really being pursued by a berserk maniac. Thatmade the movie a lot more effective. Curtisprojects that image in most of her movies, and now, walking past the pool atthe Sunset Marquis Hotel, she projected it in person. Her handshake was firm,her voice was sensible; she seemed more like a young executive than like thePrincess of Horror who followed up, “Halloween” with “The Fog” and “TerrorTrain” and various other Dead Teenager projects where half of her dialogue wasscreams. Advertisement Duringher horror period, Curtis was frank about what she was doing: She was, shesaid, learning her craft, learning to walk before she ran. Then she started toedge out of the screaming victim mode, with more challenging projects like thehit comedy “Trading Places,” where she co-starred withEddie Murphyand DanAykroyd; the made-for-TV “Money on the Side,” about housewives who dabble inprostitution, and “Love Letters,” a great movie that nobody saw, because thestudio dumped it. In that one, she was a disc jockey for a public radiostation, fell in love with a married man, and learned some hard lessons about theman, herself, her own mother, and marriage. Ifyou were a Hollywood casting agent and you had doubts about Jamie Lee Curtisand you saw “Love Letters,” you would have known she could play just aboutanything. Apparently that's what happened; on the basis of her great but unseenperformance, Curtis got the lead oppositeJohn Travoltain “Perfect,” whichhas, as they say, very good advance word-of-mouth. Akey scene in the movie was shot right here, next to the pool at the SunsetMarquis, which is the sort of hotel where you notice thatCyndi Lauperistalking with three professional wrestlers on the other side of the pool. Curtissat down, ordered Perrier, and said, “I think it's a great movie. I think it'seven greater than great. I think it's almost a really great movie.” Themovie is based on a Rolling Stone article by Aaron Latham about the wholeSouthern California world of gymnasiums, aerobics classes and obsession withphysical fitness. In the movie, Travolta plays the magazine reporter, andCurtis is the aerobics instructor he meets while he's doing research for hisstory. If the plot sounds just slightly as if it needs an IQ infusion, Curtissays the movie is not about pumping iron and looking great, but about what itall means, and how the aerobics classes of the 1980s may be the singles bars ofthe 1960s. Advertisement “Theissue of Rolling Stone the article appeared in was the ‘Looking for Mr.Goodbody' issue, with Christie Brinkley on the cover, wearing a leotard andlifting weights,” she said. “The movie is more about journalism than aboutbodies. Travolta comes to California with the idea that he's going to trash thehealth club scene. My character has been burned by the press before. I was anOlympics athlete who boycotted the Games, and I trusted a reporter who said hewanted to write about my beliefs, but wound up writing about my affair with thecoach. My swimming career was ruined, and now here comes Travolta, who alsowants me to trust him.” Curtissaid people have the idea the film consists of her and Travolta pumping irontogether, "but that's literally the backdrop. It's more about why peopleare working out; the film makes an interesting comparison between New York andLos Angeles.” Why,I asked, is there this sudden emphasis on physical fitness in Hollywood? WhenTravolta himself posed for the cover of Rolling Stone, proudly exhibiting thenew muscles he'd developed under Sylvester Stallone's training for their movie“Staying Alive,” a lot of people thought he made himself look ridiculous. Butnow lots of actors seem to be flexing their muscles, on screen and off. “Ithink it's as simple as this,” she said. “There was a big drug time out here,and now it's over. There was a time devoted to taking advantage of one's bodyby alcoholism, drug-taking, smoking. Now all of those things are unfashionableand health regimes are in. I sometimes think that underneath it all is thethought that the world could end tomorrow, so why not experience your life now,and be as healthy as you can? “Inmovies, it has now become the norm for an actor to be in the best physicalshape possible. The realism of how actors look is changing. Everybody's allpumped up and looking terrific. I've been a part of the physical thing forquite a while, but my biggest concern is that I'll get typed as an aerobicactress. You know: Hi, I'm Jamie and I work out, so buy my books and videos. Ikeep myself in shape, but there's more to me than that.” Advertisement Haveyou already been to the gym today? “Oh,God, no.” Haveyou worked out? “Ihad breakfast. I probably work out three times a week. And I lift a few 5-poundweights. I'm by no means a bionic person. You can carry anything to anaddictive extreme. Like compulsive exercising: People who work out at extremelevels and start starving themselves and getting obsessed with how they lookare gonna get all screwed up. They're gonna go back to drugs and alcohol. Whenyou get fed up with something, it's like -- get away from me! Give me acigarette! A little moderation, that's what they need.” Shelooked around the pool area, at the rows of tanning bodies and at the coolCalifornia pastel pinks and blues and turquoises, and said. “Just the look ofthis place suggests a whole California feeling. When Travolta moves in here,he's very much a New York guy, and he comes out here, and it's all dreamy. If“Perfect” does, as Curtis believes, rehabilitate Travolta's career after thebox-office failures of “Blow Out” and “Two of a Kind” and the critical debacleof “Staying Alive,” it also may provide Jamie Lee Curtis with her ownspringboard into major acting roles. I asked her how she'd evaluate her owncareer right now. “I'mcoming along just fine. God, I feel like a racehorse, training for the Derby. Coming along just fine, thank you.  Doing ‘Love Letters' was importantfor me. Doing it, I felt different, I felt confident. Afterwards, I knew I wascapable of serious acting. I'd been in the horror pictures, and when I went upfor anything else, it was always no, no, no, until I began to doubt myself.” Wasthere a tendency for people to think all you could do was scream? “Notnecessarily that. It was more that they saw me as a very innocent person -- theinnocent girl victim. In a way, though, that was lucky; the kinds of roles Iplayed were better than if I'd done eight horror films as the bad girl, alwaysmouthing off, sleeping around, a tough cookie. That kind of typecasting wouldbe harder to break out of. Advertisement “WhatI usually played was the stand-up, all-American girl. She was always educatedand she always fought back and she was strong, and yet she was vulnerable. Iwas playing the kinds of roles they're writing now for women in the majorfilms; I just happened to be in horror films.” Whatwill happen after “Perfect”? “I'llget on more lists. They take you off this list and put you on that list. It'slike tennis ladders. I'll go to the bottom of the next ladder.” JamieLee Curtis on her Leading Men:John Travoltareminds her of herfatherTony Curtis: “They were both very handsome men who had to put up withthat image, and my father never got the credit he deserves.  John will,because the public is more ready to accept someone who is good-looking and[they] still [will] believe he can act.”Eddie Murphy:I wish I could say Iknow Eddie and have great stories to tell.  But in ‘Trading Places' mostof my scenes were withDan Aykroyd. I got to know Eddie just sort of sittingaround. I think he's as serious as he is funny.  He's very quiet. I wasamazed at how much he sleeps. When he wasn't working, he was in his dressingroom.  He's not this crazed human being who runs around all the time. He'sshrewd and smart and funny, and he knows to save it for the cameras.”Dan Aykroyd:“I think he's verysexy. He could be a leading man. I think it's funny that he's always been asecond banana. He's been in some of the biggest movies, ‘Blues Brothers,'‘Trading Places,' ‘Ghostbusters,' but who do you think of?John Belushi, EddieMurphy andBill Murray.”