All happy families are alike but an unhappyfamily is unhappy after its own fashion.--Tolstoy This is one of the most familiar quotations in literature forthe excellent reason that it states a truth everyone can recognize. Thestrength of Barry Levinson's "Avalon" is that it starts as a movieabout a happy family and shows why it became unhappy after its own fashion.During the first half hour of the film, my heart sank because it seemed to beanother of those potted biopics about an immigrant family's legends andeccentricities, all three times as colorful as life. Then the colors began todarken and the mood began to change, and the film deepened into the story ofmany American families which have grown apart over the generations. Advertisement Consider for a moment the term "nuclear family." Itreflects a goal we aspire to in our society: Mom and Dad and all the kids,gathered around the hearth with the family dog and the television set. Butthere is something missing from the picture: Grandparents, uncles, aunts,cousins, in-laws. We call such a family nuclear because it revolves around thenucleus of a single family home. But it is also nuclear because it flies in alonely orbit of its own. Levinson's "Avalon" is inspired by the experiences ofhis own family. His grandparents came to American from Russia, part of a largeJewish family that pooled its resources and brought over one relative afteranother, until at last the five Krichinsky brothers had all settled inBaltimore. They were musicians--violinists, available by hire--but during theweek they worked as paper-hangers. They worked hard and raised large familiesand their extended family was the center of their social life. They lived nearto one another, and held family councils, and pooled their money for charitablegiving and to help out family members in need. And they had glowing ambitionsfor their children. One parent tells his son he will never tell him how to hangwall paper, because "it is not a job you should grow up to do." Noteslike this are struck with absolute accuracy; I remember my own father refusingto teach me his trade for the same reason. The world of Baltimore in the first half of the century isrecreated by the film with an unforced but rich detail. The clothes and carsare just right, of course, but so are the values. We understand how for some ofthe brothers, especially Gabriel (Lou Jacobi), family traditions are sacred. Heobjects when one of his brothers moves to the suburbs after the war. Hecomplains that he cannot find the suburbs, that it is too far a drive--but hisreal complaint is that the family is flying apart and losing its solidarity.This process is dramatized in the film's central scene, a Thanksgiving dinnerwhere Jacobi and his wife arrive late and the family has already cut theturkey:You cut the turkeywithout me?It is a trivial incident, perhaps, but it symbolizes a muchlarger event, the cutting of the family's close ties. Each generation is alittle more alienated from the sense of community that the first generationbrought over from Russia. Each new family drifts a little further from thecenter of the family circle. This is a process that may have something to dowith the nature of American society. Europeans are vertically conformist; theywant to do things as their ancestors did. Americans are horizontallyconformist; we want to do things as our neighbors do. This process breaks downthe richness of ethnic heritage and creates a bland Middle American who, in away, is from nowhere--who was invented in TV commercials. Advertisement Television gets a lot of the blame from Levinson for thebreakdown of the family. At first the whole family gathers around the first setthey've seen, staring in fascinating at the test patterns. Later the big, loudfamily meals are replaced by smaller groups eating off of TV trays, looking atprime time. Meanwhile, material success comes quickly to some of theKrichinskys. Issy and Jules (Kevin PollakandAidan Quinn), two cousins of thesecond generation, "Americanize" their surnames to Kirk and Kaye, andopen a big appliance store. They advertise on TV, in hambone commercials that havethe customers lined up around the block. They expand, and eventually take overa big warehouse, opening the first discount department store in Baltimore.Things are going well when two of their children--including a characterprobably meant to be Levinson himself--do something I will not reveal here, butwhich is told with such empathy, with such a memory for how young children doand remember things, that it becomes the other central pillar of the film. In a way, the kids do what they do because of what they've seenon television. The result, indirectly, is that one of their fathers gets a jobselling advertising time on TV. Television is a thread all through the movie.It's a socially divisive force, but it's also an entertainment, a hypnoticpastime, an occupation, an influence, a presence. Levinson seems to feel thatTV is a disastrous invention that has cut our human society off from its roots.That may be true (although it will not, of course, prevent the eventual sale ofthis film to television). "Avalon" is often a warm and funny film, but it isalso a sad one, and the final sequence is heartbreaking. It shows the way inwhich our modern families, torn loose of their roots, have left old peoplealone and lonely--warehoused in retirement homes. The story of the movie is thestory of how the warmth and closeness of an extended family is replaced byalienation and isolation. The title of the film comes from the name of theBaltimore neighborhood where the family first settled. In Celtic mythology,Avalon was an island of blessed souls, an earthly paradise somewhere in theWestern seas. Who would think, sailing for it, that they would fall off theedge of the earth? Advertisement