"An American in Paris" swept the Academy Awards for1951, with Oscars for best picture and the major technical categories: screenplay,score, cinematography, art direction, set design, and even a special Oscar forthe choreography of its 18-minute closing ballet extravaganza. "Singin'in the Rain," released in 1952 and continuing the remarkable golden age ofMGM musicals, didn't do nearly as well on its initial release. But by the1960s, "Singin' " was routinely considered the greatest of allHollywood musicals, and "An American in Paris" was remembered withmore respect than enthusiasm. Advertisement Nowthat the film has been restored for a national theatrical release and aneventual re-launch on tapes and laserdiscs, it's easy to see why "Singin'" passed it in the popularity sweepstakes. Its story of two Americans inMontparnasse - a struggling painter (Gene Kelly) and a perennial piano student(Oscar Levant) - is essentially a clothesline on which to hang recycledGershwin songs ("I Got Rhythm," "S'Wonderful") and a cornystory of love won, lost, and won again. Compared to "Singin's" tartsatire of Hollywood at the birth of the talkies, it's pretty tame stuff. Andyet "American" has many qualities of its own, not least its famousballet production number, with Kelly andLeslie Caronsymbolizing the entirestory of their courtship in dance. And there are other production numbers, setin everyday Parisian settings, that are endlessly inventive in their use ofprops and locations. Thestories of the two movies are curiously similar. In both of them, Kelly mustbreak his romance of convenience with a predatory older blonde (Nina Fochin"American,"Jean Hagenin "Singin' ") in order to followhis heart to a younger, more innocent brunette (Leslie Caron and DebbieReynolds). In both, he is counseled by a best friend (Oscar Levant and DonaldO'Connor). And in both there is a dramatic moment when all seems lost, justwhen it is about to be gained. "Singin'" is the more realistic picture, which is perhaps why it holds up bettertoday. "American" has scenes that are inexplicable, including the onewhere Levant joins Kelly and their French friend Henri (Georges Guetary) at acafe. When he realizes they are both in love with the same women, Levant startslighting a handful of cigarettes while simultaneously trying to drink coffee. Maybeit seemed funny at the time. There'salso a contrast between the Nina Foch character - a possessive rich woman whohopes to buy Kelly's affections - and Jean Hagen's brassy blonde, a silent starwhose shrieking voice is not suited to the sound era. Foch's blonde is justplain sour and unpleasant. Hagen's blonde is funny and fun. And, for thatmatter, there's no comparing the ingenues, either: Caron, still unformed, agreat dancer but a so-so actress, and Reynolds, already a pro in her filmdebut, perky and bright-eyed. Advertisement Theversion now being released is a "true" restoration, according to theexperts at Turner Entertainment, who say the job they did on"American" compares to the salvage work on "Gone With theWind" and "Lawrence of Arabia." Because two reels of theoriginal negative were destroyed by fire, painstaking lab work was necessary tomatch those reels to the rest of the film. The result is a bright andfresh-looking print, in which the colors are (probably deliberately) not assaturated or bold as in the classic Technicolor process. Theads say the movie is now in stereo. This is not quite true. Only the 18-minuteballet has been reprocessed into a sort of reconstructed stereo, and if atheater plays the whole film in stereo the result may be the kind of raw-edgedsound I heard at a press screening, before the projectionist gave up andswitched to mono. The best choice would probably be to start in mono andphysically switch to stereo when the ballet starts - although why so much laboris expended on quasi-stereo effects is beyond me. The real reasons to see"An American in Paris" are for the Kelly dance sequences, the closingballet, the Gershwin songs, the bright locations, and a few moments of theineffable, always curiously sad charm of Oscar Levant.