There is an image in "Immortal Beloved" as evocativeas any I can remember - as complete as the sled in "Citizen Kane," orthe shadowy doorway in "The Third Man." A boy runs through the forestat night to a perfectly still lake, and floats on his back. The camera pullsback, and we see the stars of the sky reflected in the water. Andthen it seems as if the boy is floating in the firmament - lost in the stars.On the soundtrack, we hear the "Ode to Joy" from Beethoven's NinthSymphony. Moviesthat attempt to match visual images to great music are often asking fortrouble. Remember the "1812 Overture" playing in Ken Russell's biopicof Tchaikovsky, the cannon roars illustrated by images of soldiers' heads beingblown off? WhatBernard Rosehas accomplished in "Immortal Beloved"is a film that imagines the mental states of Beethoven with a series of imagesas vivid and convincing as a dream. Advertisement Thefilm unfolds like a biographical puzzle. Beethoven after his death left aletter addressed to his "immortal beloved," with no hint as to whothat person was. As a last testament this document may have been faulty, but asa biographical puzzle it was a masterstroke, inspiring two centuries of feveredspeculations, of which this film is the latest and most romantic. I doubt Rosehas solved the puzzle of the unnamed beloved, but I care not, because he hasdone something more valuable: He has created a fantasy about Beethoven thatevokes the same disturbing, ecstatic passion we hear in his music. Thefilm opens with Schindler (Jeroen Krabbe), Beethoven's confidante, beginning asearch for the immortal beloved. As he visits first one and then anotherpossible source of information, it is impossible not to be reminded of thehapless reporter who sought the meaning of "Rosebud" in "CitizenKane." As he visits the important women in Beethoven's life, we seeflashbacks to the composer's disorderly and precarious existence, and we hearmusic, magnificent music. Unusualfor the director of a musical biography, Rose has paid as much attention to themusic as to the biography. Most biopics about classical composers dredge upobscure, low-rent recordings of the music. Not this one. The film's musicalsupervisor is Sir Georg Solti, conducting the London Orchestra, with soloistssuch as Murray Perahia and Yo-Yo Ma. If there are moments when we doubtBeethoven was thinking exactly these images as he composed, there are otherswhen the momentum of the story takes over, and we identify with a torturedgenius whose deafness cut him off from the immortal sounds he was giving tomankind. Beethovenis played in the film byGary Oldman, who at first seems an unlikely choice:Too small, too driven, too insinuating. Thenwe see that he is right. He is a man on the edge of madness, obsessed with women,even more obsessed with Karl (Marco Hofschneider), the young nephew he hopes toturn into a prodigy. He wages a lifelong campaign of hate against Karl'smother, Johanna (Johanna Ter Steege), telling his brother Caspar (ChristopherFulford) she is a foul slut. The movie proposes an interesting explanation ofBeethoven's hatred of her and love for her son, one which sensible biographerswill question, but that fits perfectly with the terms of the story. Advertisement IfJohanna is, by default, one of the three most important women in Beethoven'slife, the other two are Countess Giulietta Guicciardi (Valeria Golino), whobecomes his student and patron, and the older, wiser Countess Anna Maria Erdody(Isabella Rossellini), who stands up to Beethoven after he has gone into courtto wrest young Karl away from Johanna, his mother. Inthe scenes with Giulietta we see Beethoven's status as the most sought-afterlion of the European musical scene; in his day, a great composer was theequivalent of today's rock stars, swooned over and showered with attention. Hebecomes the countess' piano teacher, but does not always play the gameaccording to her world's rules: "A mistake is nothing," he tells her,"but the fact that you thump out the notes without the least sensitivityto their meaning is unforgivable, and your lack of passion is unforgivable. Ishall have to beat you." She thinks he is teasing until he slaps her sohard that tears well in her eyes. Thescenes with the Rossellini character are among the best in the film, becausehere he finds a haven from his debts, from his troubles with the law, from hiswars with his relatives, from his fawning admirers and mocking rivals. She seesmost clearly his curious obsession with young Karl, which takes an odd turn:Beethoven stops composing entirely for five years in order to supervise Karl'seducation as a music virtuoso, despite the boy's tearful pleas to be allowed tobecome a soldier. Beethoven'sdeafness is a subject through much of the film, including a precarious scenewhere the Rossellini character leads him from the stage after he grows confusedduring a public performance, and another in which he touches the wood of apianoforte to hear the music through his fingers. He tried desperately toconceal his deafness, fearing it would destroy his livelihood, and on thesoundtrack Rose sometimes reproduces what he can hear: Low rumbles curiouslylike the music of the whales. Thisis the fourth film by the young British director Bernard Rose, after"Paperhouse" (1989), "Chicago Joe and the Showgirl" (1990)and "Candyman" (1992). The first was a masterpiece, a hauntingfantasy about the secret mental worlds of children. The second, set in WorldWar II, was a fanciful recreation of a relationship between a GI and a Britishgirl, both living in their delusions. The third was about a legendary figuresaid to haunt Chicago public housing projects. In all three films Rose shows aremarkable gift for visualizing his themes: His films are stimulating to lookat. Advertisement Here,in the shopworn genre of the musical biopic, he makes everything new."Immortal Beloved" has clearly been made by people who feel Beethovendirectly in their hearts, and are not approaching him through a classroom orhistorical setting. Beethoven writes to Schindler at one point, arguing:"It is the power of music to carry one directly into the mental state ofthe composer. The listener has no choice. It is like hypnotism." Theviewer of "Immortal Beloved" likewise has no choice, and for the samereason.