Sitting in the dark, watchingPaul Newman's performance in"Nobody's Fool," I jotted down the word "humility." Itseemed to be the word that fit best. He is onscreen in virtually every scene ofthe movie, playing a 60-year-old man named Sully who has spent most of his lifedrinking beer and avoiding responsibility and who now is thrown into dailycontact with a son who doesn't trust him and a grandson who doesn't know him.Sully decides to change - or has change thrust upon him, which amounts to aboutthe same thing. Advertisement Ihave been watching Paul Newman in movies all of my life. He is so much a partof the landscape of modern American film that sometimes he is almost invisible:He does what he does with simplicity, grace and a minimum of fuss, and so Iwonder if people even realize what a fine actor he is. We remember thecharacters instead: Fast Eddie Felson, Hud, Butch Cassidy, the alcoholic lawyerin "The Verdict". . . In"Nobody's Fool," Newman plays another heavy drinker, the kind offeckless free spirit you occasionally meet: A man who has never grown up, whodespite his carefree disregard for the ordinary requirements of society,remains somehow so charming and innocent that people forgive him his sins. Hehas found an economic niche that supports his lifestyle. He does constructionwork for a local builder. He rents a room upstairs in the house of his eighthgrade teacher. Ofcourse freedom has a price. He has long ago departed from his marriage, and hisson has grown up almost a stranger to him. His "family," such as itis, consists of the regulars in a neighborhood bar: An old lawyer, a barmaid, aco-worker who is mentally retarded. Atone point in the film he talks about his ex-wife with his son, who says,"Mom's biggest fear is that your life was fun." To which he canhonestly reply: "Tell her not to worry." Sully works on and off for alocal contractor named CarlRoebuck (Bruce Willis). And he has been conducting a sort of arm's-lengthflirtation with Carl's wife, Toby (Melanie Griffith). It involves a lot ofwishful thinking on both sides. Sully's best friend is Rub Squeers (PruittTaylor Vince), a mildly retarded local handyman who helps out on jobs. One daythe even pattern of Sully's life is interrupted when his son, Peter (DylanWalsh) comes back into his life. Peteris a college teacher. His marriage is breaking up, and he returns to his old hometownwith one of his two children (his wife keeps the other, for the time being). Hehas no clear plan. Perhapshe will work with Sully on construction for a time. This does not sit well withRub, who feels rejected, and quits so he can sit on his steps and sulk. Itis the middle of the winter in the small town, which seems almost uninhabited(directorRobert Bentonwisely focuses on the foreground characters in hisstory, and mostly avoids extras). Sully is engaged in a long-running duel withRoebuck, involving the theft and recapture of a snow blower. Otherwise, withwork scarce, he hangs out in the local saloon with his drinking buddy Wirf(Gene Saks), who is also his lawyer in a seemingly endless string of casesinvolving workmen's compensation and traffic violations. Advertisement Ina sense, not much happens in "Nobody's Fool." In another sense, greatchanges take place. Sully is a man who has put his truly important issues onhold for a very long time, while making a cause out of trivial issues. He will,for example, go to great lengths to steal the snow blower, or to score pointsoff a dim-witted local policeman. But now, with Peter back, he finds that allthe big issues of his early life - his marriage, his family - are staring himin the face again. Above all, he is challenged to be responsible to his younggrandson as he never was to the boy's father. Thestory, written by Benton from the novel byRichard Russo, unfolds according toits own logic. It has the patience to listen to silences. Above all, itbenefits from the confidence of Newman's performance. He is not hammering thepoints home, not marching from one big scene to another, but simply living onthe screen, and if the film's last shot is of Sully sound asleep, by then weunderstand why he has earned his rest. Thebest moments in the film are based on relationships. Sullyis quite fond, for example, of his landlady, old Miss Beryl (Jessica Tandy, inone of her last performances). He has a bantering relationship with Wirf, thelawyer who seemingly has only this one fool for a client. His pipe dreams withToby, which involve the two of them flying off to Hawaii, are important to him,because he is a romantic - and to her, because she trusts his goodness, and isfed up with her husband. And there are other characters, including a womanbartender and the local police chief, who help create the character of Sully bythe way they respond to him. Atthe center is Paul Newman. He is an exact contemporary ofMarlon Brando, who issaid to have invented modern film acting. Yes, and he probably did, strippingit of the mannerisms of the past and creating a hypercharged realism. LikeBrando, Newman studied the Method. Like Brando, Newman looked good in anundershirt. Unlike Brando, Newman went on to study life, and so while Brandobroke through and then wandered aimlessly in inexplicable roles (especiallysince "The Godfather" 20 years ago), Newman continued to work on hiscraft. Having seen what he could put in, he went on to see what he could leaveout. In "Nobody's Fool," he has it just about figured out. Advertisement