It is a dark and stormy night. In an isolated house on adeserted landscape, a woman waits alone. The opening moments of "Death andthe Maiden" are so intriguing that almost any continuation would be adisappointment - but movies have to be about something, and so slowly thepurity of the situation settles down into the business of the plot. But notbefore the woman, played bySigourney Weaver, has made an indelible impression. Sheis angry and deeply troubled. She is expecting someone, and has a chicken inthe oven and a bottle of wine prepared. Then she hears a news bulletin on theradio, and her mood turns to rage. She eats her own dinner, savagely jabbing itwith a knife, and dumps the rest in the garbage. She is acutely aware of thenight outside. When the man she is waiting for appears, he has been given alift by a stranger. She conceals herself in the bedroom, and pretends to beasleep. The two men talk and drink. She creeps out into the night, steals thestranger's car, and drives away. Advertisement Thevisitor is distraught to have his car taken - to be marooned, in thanks for hisgood deed. The two men sit on the steps and continue their conversation. Oneman is her husband, Gerardo Escobar (Stuart Wilson). The other is a neighbornamed Dr. Roberto Miranda (Ben Kingsley). The men become friendly, confiding.It is very late, there is no way to leave the house, and so the visitor agreesto bed down on the couch in the living room. He seems drunk, convivial, but themoment the husband disappears a chemical change seems to take place, and he isthoughtful and self-possessed. Hegoes to sleep. The woman approaches the house quietly, steals into the livingroom, and is able to surprise the visitor and tie him up before he can resist.She believes he is a torturer - the man who raped her 14 times when she was apolitical prisoner. She never saw him, because she was blindfolded, but sheknows his voice, his way of using little phrases like "itty bitty,"and even his smell. She knows it is him. Thatis the setup for Roman Polanski's film, based on the play by Ariel Dorfman. Inthe movie's long night of the soul, the man, bound to a chair, will protest hisinnocence. The woman will jeer at him and cross-examine him. And her husbandwill waver first in one direction and then in the other, because this Dr.Miranda is a charming man and a very intelligent one, and if there is a way forhim to talk his way to freedom, he will find it. "Deathand the Maiden" is said to be based on events in Chile, but it could takeplace in any of the many countries where rule is by force and intimidation. Itis, to some degree, about actual guilt: Is this the man who raped and torturedher? To another degree, it is about the nature of guilt and human identity: Ifthis is the same man, has he perhaps changed? Was he a product of the times -even a victim of the times, which forced some to be torturers no less thanrequiring others to be victims? If he is guilty, does he repent? Is thereforgiveness for his crime? Does the woman, by making him a captive and tauntinghim, descend to his level? Is her husband in some way caught up in a malebonding with this man against women - an instinctive camaraderie that requireshim to join forces with any man against any woman? All of these questions lurktantalizingly under the surface of "Death and the Maiden," making itricher than its materials might promise. The story is not about whether this isthe same man who tortured her, but about the question: What then? There is eventhe subtle suggestion that - if he was the man - he was not as cruel to her ashe might have been, might even have shown her some twisted kindness, duringthose dark days when an evil society forced captors and their prisoners toenact the rites of torture. Advertisement Yes,and it is even more complex than that. Because the whole story leads up to along monologue by the doctor, brilliantly delivered by Ben Kingsley, so that wemust answer not only the question of his guilt or innocence, but the questionof its meaning. Bythe time the film arrives at its answers, they have become questions. The mostdifficult question is, how must we punish the evil? If a man kills, must hethen be killed? The most compelling argument against capital punishment, forme, is not that society should not execute, but that society should not makeanyone into an executioner. "Deathand the Maiden" is all about acting. In other hands, even given the samedirector, this might have been a dreary slog. Kingsleymakes it come alive with his insinuating performance as the accused rapist: Hemakes his character so smart we have a certain admiration for his struggle. Heis powerless, except for his wits, but they are formidable. The logic of thestory places him at its center, but without the Sigourney Weaver performance itwould still probably not work. There must have been the temptation to play upthe rage of her character, but she brings so many other colors to this woman.There are times, during the dialogue, when we feel we have almost beentransported back through time to the actual events she remembers. Whatof the third character, the husband? Played convincingly by Wilson as a man whowould genuinely like to know the truth, he is a surrogate for us: A jurist whowill chair a panel to get to the bottom of those tragic years. But his wifeknows (and the man strapped to the chair knows) that no panel can answer, orunderstand, the nature of the situation. Only the torturer and the torturedhave shared that information, and perhaps only by changing places can theyunderstand it. Always assuming, of course, that she has strapped the right manto the chair. Advertisement