Taiga A Documentary Watchinga film like "Taiga" is an undertaking entirely apart from the usualexperiences we have at the movies. It is eight hours long, but comes in threeparts; I have so far seen the first part, at 199 minutes, and it resides in mymemory with something of the same weight as an actual journey to another land. Iam fully aware that an epic ethnographic documentary about the nomadic tribesof Mongolia is not a film most people think they want to see (indeed, my ownfeet dragged on my way into the theater). Advertisement Butfor those who are curious, "Tiaga" is an experience that causes us tothink about why we live as we do, what it is to be human, and what is importantin life. TheDarkhad and Soyon Uriyanghai peoples live in a vast valley in NorthernMongolia, much as their ancestors have for centuries. They move between theirsummer, autumn and winter camps, setting up their yurts - large, portable roundtents, each with a front door and frame made of wood. They tend cattle andsheep. They have peripheral contact with modern life, and we see motorcyclesamong more ancient styles of possessions. Their religion centers aroundshamans, women priests whose ceremonies begin at midnight, who go into trances,and who must be awaked by dawn lest their spirits stay in the other world. "Taiga"is the record of a long period spent by the German filmmakerUlrike Ottingeramong these people. She directed, photographed, and wrote the sparse titlesthat introduce each segment. What we understand at once is that the subjects ofher film are not people in a hurry. They live according to the seasons, not thehours, and the film adopts a certain patience. It's not one of thoseonce-over-lightly documentaries where we get a quick snapshot of colorfulnomads and then there's a fade to the sunset. Atfirst, the approach is disconcerting: Is anything ever going to happen in thisfilm? Then we become comfortable with the rhythms of their daily lives. In PartOne, we attend a shamanistic ceremony and a wedding. We listen to a folk story,see boots being made, and visit a sacred tree, all adorned with feathers,skins, horsehair and other gifts from those who have been here before. Wewatch food being prepared. In particular, we follow the slaughter of a lambthrough all of its particulars, as every ounce of the lamb is used according totraditional practices; the intestines are cleaned, the organs are set aside,the blood is drained and saved, and choice cuts of meat are reserved as prizesin a wrestling tournament. Thenwe observe all of the stages in which meat dumplings are made. Advertisement Whydoes Ottinger show us the process in such detail? Because her film doesn't wantto chatter, "Meat dumplings are a favorite food of the Mongols"; itwants to say, "Here is exactly how these people raise, tend, slaughter,dress, prepare, cook and serve an animal, and how food serves both a ceremonialand a family purpose." After seeing this film, I could make dumplingsaccording to the Mongol way - and maybe I will. Thesepeople, living from the land, use everything. Their herds give them plentifulsupplies of milk, and, casually, the film documents how many ways they use it.At various times we see them preparing salted milk tea, cottage cheese, yogurt,and milk liquor. Then we witness a milk can employed for an ingenious barbecue:Rocks are heated in a fire, and then the hot rocks and chunks of meat aredropped into the can, which is twisted shut to form a sort of pressure cooker. Onesequence involves a local wrestling match. What is remarkable is howgood-natured it is, as the wrestlers strut in their homemade uniforms and thensquare off, and their audience kneels in a ring, absorbed. There is no applausefor the winner, but instead hand gestures, palm toward the sky, as if toindicate that the champion has lifted himself above the ordinary. Theseason comes to an end, and the tribes disassemble their yurts and load them,and all their other possessions, into oxen, for the trek to the winterquarters. Whatoccurred to me, watching the film, is that time does not slip away for thesepeople. They do not ask where the day went, because they were at its side. Theyrespect one another and themselves, they are deeply courteous, they live inharmony with the land, and although their lives seem hard to us, they are notunhappy lives, because everything has a purpose, and the purpose is clear tosee. Ifyou commit yourself to this epic experience, leave your watch at home. This isa long, slow film. There is no narrator imparting breathless banalities. Nocute reaction shots of grinning children or wrinkled grannies. No lovablepuppies. No clichés about the simple nobility of these ancient tribes. Nodocumentary packaging. Ulrike Ottinger was invited into the lives of thesepeoples, and she stayed a long time, watching and listening, and then she madea film about what she saw and heard. That is worth doing, and worth seeing. Advertisement