“A Man of No Importance" tells the story of a Dublin busconductor named Alfie, whose hero isOscar Wilde, whose hobby is stagingamateur theatricals and whose nickname for the handsome young driver of his busis "Bosie." Since Bosie was also Wilde's pet name for his lover, LordAlfred Douglas, one could be excused for concluding that Alfie was gay. But thetime is the early 1960s, when such clues were not easily seen in Ireland, andAlfie's sister confidently waits for him to find "the right girl,"even though he is close to 60 and not exactly looking for her. Advertisement Alfieis played byAlbert Finneyin another of those performances where Finneyinhabits his character as comfortably as an old slipper. Only Finney's ease andconfidence, indeed, make Alfie very believable, since the film's story is moreparable than reality. Thisis another of those tales where we are invited to cheer as the protagonist atlast understands and accepts his true nature, but while we are happy for Alfie thereis no sense that much was really at risk; his safe landing is made clear almostfrom the opening frames. Whatis best about the film is its sentimental portrait of a Dublin filled with suchinnocents and lovers of literature that the regular passengers on a bus couldlook forward to the conductor's daily readings from literature - and would notcomplain when he delays the bus one morning for a young lady who might be theideal lead for his production of Wilde's "Salome." The Irish more thanmany other societies live in a close proximity to their literature. On my tripsthere I have been surprised to find that Wilde, Shaw, Beckett, Joyce and theothers are as familiar as football heroes or pop stars. I never met an Irishmanwho couldn't quote a little Yeats, or more than a little. This helps lend somecredibility to the notion that a bus conductor could cast "Salome"from among his passengers, something one would not attempt in Chicago on, say,the Clark Street bus. Dublinis a big city, but Alfie lives in a small world, and we meet its inhabitants.There is Carney (Michael Gambon), the butcher, who often plays the lead; Lily(Brenda Fricker), Alfie's sister, who doesn't like it when he prepares fancyforeign dishes out of cookbooks; Adele (Tara Fitzgerald), the sweet-faced younggirl Alfie wants for Salome, and Robbie (Rufus Sewell), the bus driver, whodoes not remotely suspect that the conductor has a crush on him. Oh,and of course there's the benevolent Father Ignatius Kenny (Mick Lally), who ishappy to lend the church hall for the theatricals, although he may have aslight suspicion that Oscar Wilde lacks the imprimatur. Advertisement Themovie finds a consistent vein of sly humor, indeed, in the inability of most ofits characters to catch on that Alfie is gay - or that Oscar Wilde was. Thestory takes place at about the time of the Profumo scandal, when the societydoctor Stephen Ward was accused of providing call girls for a British cabinetminister. Such is the confusion as this information arrives in Dublin that oneperfect line of dialogue confuses Ward's profession with his practices, andrefers to "homo-a-pathy" as a sin. Alfieis obviously on a collision course with his true nature, and the way in whichthis theme works itself out had best not be revealed here, except to say thatQuentin Crispwould have been proud of the floppy hat and flamboyant pink scarfAlfie finds in his closet. BarryDevlin's screenplay has other good one-liners, as when Alfie defends Wilde:"It's nothing to do with the Bible or nine weeks on your knees to St. Jude- it's art." Or when he has a moment of self-knowledge late in the film,after his sister says, "When I think of where your hands have been!"and he replies in anguish: "They've never been anywhere! I've never beenclose enough to anyone to so much as rub up against them, let alone put a handon them." And then adds with stubborn humor: "Me hands are innocentof affection." All of this should work better than it does. I think theproblem is that the director,Suri Krishnamma, is too easy on the story and thecharacters and, with the exception of one scene outside a bar, avoids the roughedges. The movie operates at the level of a literate sitcom, in which thedialogue is smart and the characters are original, but the outcome and most ofthe stops along the way are preordained. I said it was a parable, but perhapsit's more of a fable: a story told after the fact, rearranging the details intothe way they should have been. Ifthere were real Alfies in Dublin in the early 1960s, and I am sure there were,their lives were probably not anything near this cozy.