Stephen Kinghas a lot of fun playing with the line betweenreality and fiction - his "Misery" was the story of a fan who takes ahorror writer's work a little too seriously - and now here is a movie to turnthe tables on King. JohnCarpenter's "In the Mouth of Madness" begins with the disappearanceof a horror writer named Sutter Cane, whose latest book has caused some of itsreaders to go mad. The book is a best-seller, and when stores sell out, they'rebesieged by angry mobs. (It is a sign of our times, I suppose, that citizensare fanned into a frenzy by the book even before they read it.) Enter aninsurance fraud investigator named John Trent (Sam Neill), who is sitting inthe window of a coffee shop one day when a man across the street picks up anax, walks through traffic and slams the ax through the shop window. (This shot,showing the man approaching in the background while a quiet conversationproceeds unaware in the foreground, is one of the movie's best.) Turns out thewould-be ax murderer is Sutter Cane's former agent. Advertisement Asan epidemic of apparent paranoid schizophrenia spreads, fueled by the latestCane novel, we meet Cane's publisher (Charlton Heston) and his book editor,named Linda Styles (Julie Carmen). She hires Trent to investigate the apparentdisappearance of Cane; she wants a fraud investigator because she suspectseverything is not as it seems. No kidding. Nowthe movie lifts off into fantasy, as Trent and Styles go in search of Cane. Thereare lots of cross-references to Stephen King, as when Trent cleverly piecestogether a map of New Hampshire out of the covers of Cane's books, and when atown named Hobb's Corner figures heavily, just as Castle Rock is the locale ofmany of King's stories. AsTrent and Styles drive through the night, strange nightmarish apparitionsappear by the roadside: innocent ones, like kids on bicycles, and moredisturbing ones, like ghouls. They arrive at a town that is not on any map,check into an inn with weird creatures in the basement, and are constantlystartled by threats that leap in from out of frame, the oldest trick in thehorror movie book. It'sabout here - still fairly early in the film - that "In the Mouth ofMadness" begins to lose its way. The notion of a book that drives itsreaders mad is intriguing (especially in a movie where no one thinks to take itoff sale), but after the heroes arrive in Hobbs Corner what we essentially haveis a horror house movie, in which the protagonists creep along while creaturesleap at them. Thenovelist Sutter Cane (Jurgen Prochnow) does eventually turn up, with lines like"More people believe in my work than believe in the Bible," but notmuch is done to develop him, and the movie does what no horror movie can affordto do, which is to play tennis without a net. Stories like this need rules;it's not enough to send the beleaguered hero on a roller-coaster ride throughshocking images. Onewonders how "In the Mouth of Madness" might have turned out if thescript had contained even a little more wit and ambition. Advertisement Thefact that the book was driving its readers mad might have provided an openingfor some entertaining satire. The Charlton Heston character, a publisher whostands to make millions by selling the book, might have been expanded into moreof a hypocrite. What about the government? Is a book that makes you paranoidprotected by free speech? The moviestarts out with lots of intriguing ideas, and then sidesteps most of them inorder to provide a special effects sideshow that looks inspired by the"Nightmare on Elm Street" series. Ironically,the most recent "Elm Street" movie, "Wes Craven's NewNightmare," about a movie director who finds that his horror films areseeping over into real life, covers similar ground in a much more original way- and it has better special effects.