“I knew he was homosexual," the young man explains to hisfriend, "because they had chocolate ice cream, and yet he orderedstrawberry." Thus does the shortage of consumer products in Castro's Cubareveal the inner workings of the libido. Theyoung man's name is David (Vladimir Cruz), and he recently had a disenchantingexperience with his fiancée. They went to a cheap hotel to make love for thefirst time, but she was dismayed by the shabbiness of the surroundings andcould not understand how the man who loved her could bring her there. David wasunderstanding, they left without making love - and the next time we see them,it is at her wedding to another man. Advertisement SoDavid is on the rebound that day in the park when Diego (Jorge Perrugoria) sitsat his table and starts to eat the strawberry ice cream. Diego is obviouslygay: He's swishy, wearing his sexuality as a badge of honor. And he has eyesfor the handsome young David, inviting him back to his flat for coffee, andthen staging a fake scenario where the coffee spills on David's shirt. Diegoinsists David take it off so he can wash it, and . . . Andnothing unfolds as we expect. "Strawberry and Chocolate" is not amovie about the seduction of a body, but about the seduction of a mind. It ismore interested in politics than sex - unless you count sexual politics, sinceto be homosexual in Cuba is to make an anti-authoritarian statement whether youintend it or not. Themovie has been directed byTomas Gutierrez Alea, at 72 the greatest of Cuba'sfilmmakers and one of its most contradictory. An early supporter of FidelCastro and the head of the revolution's underground film unit, he made"Stories of the Revolution" (1960) about the overthrow of the Batistaregime. He founded the national film unit. Yet his own films have questionedlife under Castro: The famous "Memories of Underdevelopment" (1968)is about an intellectual adrift in revolutionary Havana, and now here is a filmin which Diego taps his brow and says, "This is a thinking head - and ifyou have ideas, they ostracize you." The character of Diego is much morecomplex than he first appears. He is a little older than David, handsome, andwell-off by Cuban standards: He lives in a small, cluttered apartment, but atleast he lives there alone, and it is filled with art, books, opera recordingsand even contraband scotch. He stages art exhibitions. He is widely read,sophisticated and critical of the way Cuba is run today. At one point, he takesDavid up to a rooftop, lets his arm sweep across Havana, and says, "Welive in one of the world's most beautiful cities. You're just in time to see itbefore it collapses in s- - -." It is a little startling to hear suchlines in a movie made in Havana, by Cubans; perhaps Castro's control of thearts is not as extreme as we think? It's the tension between our notions ofCuba and Diego's reckless behavior that gives "Strawberry andChocolate" much of its fascination: Gutierrez Alea is showing us a man whotakes chances with both his sexuality and his politics. Atfirst, of course, Diego wants to seduce David, who is a naive universitystudent and a devout Marxist. David's friend at school is the rigid Miguel(Francisco Gatorno), a future bureaucrat, who encourages David to return toDiego and spy on him - which is one of the reasons David returns to theintriguing flat of his new friend, but not the only one. Actually he is fascinatedby the photographs and books he sees at Diego's, and the music that's alwaysplaying, and the fresh ideas that are churning in his new friend's mind. Advertisement Themovie reminded me of "Educating Rita" and, of course, of"Pygmalion" in the way young people, hungry for knowledge, absorb itfrom older ones who are in love with them; the love remains suspended while theideas sink in. And all around are semi-documentary glimpses of today's Havana:the ancient Detroit cars in the streets, the way color and life penetrate evendismal slums, the gloominess of Marxist orthodoxy, the ambiguity of characterslike Nancy (Mirta Ibarra), who heads the revolutionary committee in Diego'sbuilding but is much more flexible than she seems. Sometimesthe movie, based on a short story and screenplay by Senal Paz, is a little tooarch in its writing. At one point David says that the atomic bomb was droppedbyTruman Capote, setting up Diego's line, "Not Capote! He was ahomosexual!" My guess is that the likelihood of David even knowingCapote's name is next to zero, and that the line shows Paz peeking through witha one-liner he couldn't resist. Aswith all statements from today's Cuba, "Strawberry and Chocolate" canbe seen reflected in many different mirrors. My first reaction was to wonderhow Gutierrez Alea could get away with such pointed criticisms of his country.Yet conservative Cuban exiles in Miami have called it propaganda, preciselybecause it gives the impression that Cubans can safely be critical of Castro.Have it either way: The movie has real strength and charm, especially in theway it leads us to expect a romance, and then gives us a character whose veryexistence is a criticism of his society.