Underneath everything, I believe, both women (Jyll JohnstoneandBarbara Ettinger) are furious at their parents for not raising them themselves.But their fury is balanced by the deep love one family's children feels for itsnanny. The other nanny is a more difficult case. Thefamilies are the Johnstones and the Ettingers. The Johnstones hired Martha, aGerman immigrant, to care for their children, and Martha was a stricttaskmaster. The children do not much remember her smiling, and there were timesthey "hated her." The Ettingers hired Ethel, a black woman from theSouth, who was so warm and generous that the children are still close to her -and Ethel and Mrs. Advertisement Ettinger,both now very old, still live together, in an affectionate mutual dependency. Perhapsboth families got what they were looking for. "When they had to bepunished, they were," says Mrs. Johnstone of Martha's methods. "Theywere little hellions, you know. They had a little cruel streak." Mrs.Ettinger looks fondly on Ethel's less disciplinary approach: "I thinkchoosing someone who is terribly kind is more important than choosing someonewho is terribly efficient." The filmmakers intercut stock footage to showthe worlds that Martha and Ethel came from. Martha's milieu is illustrated byclips from "Maedchen in Uniform," a German drama about a sadisticgirls' school. About Ethel we are told she sometimes saved up to visit Harlemon the weekends, and that's the setup for clips ofCab Callowayat the CottonClub. The footage reveals more, perhaps, about the filmmakers' fantasies abouttheir nannies than about the nannies' own lives. Whatlurks under so many of the scenes in "Martha and Ethel" are emotionsthat are never really brought to the surface: anger against the absent mothers,and guilt about the women who devoted their own lives to substituting for them.One of the mothers, who began life as a child prodigy at the piano, laterswitched to the occupation of being a full-time socialite, and the moviediscusses her life as if it were indeed a career - and hard work. We hear abouther "half-dozen charities," including the Junior League, where theexhausting charity work entails dressing in glamorous gowns in order to beapplauded at expensive lunches in hotel ballrooms. Atone point very late in the film, both directors escort their nannies back tothe homes they had left many years before. Marthawalks down the streets of her hometown in Germany, and Jyll Johnstone says,"It was the first time I had seen her truly happy since I knew her."We have earlier learned that Martha saved prudently for her old age, and wasmuch beloved in the apartment building she retired to, not least because at herage she could climb four flights of stairs. Inanother sequence, Barbara Ettinger takes Ethel down south to see her sister"for the first time in 64 years," and we wonder: Although Ethel andMrs. Ettinger are shown as still living together happily after all thesedecades, did it not occur to the Ettingers for 64 years that Ethel might like atrip home? What's interesting is the way the nannies are revealed on their ownterms. Martha, trained as a strict disciplinarian in a German school fornannies, did what she was taught, and yet later in life is revealed as sweeterand more cheerful than the children remembered her. Ethel, so beloved,nevertheless reveals in a couple of places that she knows exactly what thescore is. As the camera looks at the Ettinger family home, she indicates anarea above the garage: "Those three little windows - those were myquarters." I think the bottom line is that Jyll Johnstone and BarbaraEttinger both wish they had been raised by their mothers, not their nannies(fathers are portrayed in the films as busy working in the city; one marriageends in divorce, pointedly not discussed). Their mothers are ambiguous. AndMartha and Ethel both seem to feel they got more or less what they bargainedfor in the way of an occupational choice, although for Ethel there was also thebonus (or was it the consolation?) of love. Advertisement