Housing space is at a premium in Russia, and the young man ishappy to be assigned a room in an apartment already filled with as many peopleas one of those crowded warrens in "Crime and Punishment." Whatamazes him is how many pianos there are in the apartment. "We work at thefactory," a resident helpfully explains. That means they have more pianosthan they need - but not enough, of course, food, clothing or vodka. Onenight the new boarder, a teacher whose name is Nikolai, sees a ghostly visitorin the apartment. The others see her, too, and explain that she is an oldwoman, looking for her cat, which has gone missing ever since her death. Whereis the cat? Its disappearance holds a clue to the movie's comic premise, whichis that by stepping through a mirror in the old woman's room, you can bemagically transported from St. Petersburg to Paris. Advertisement Parisis of course everything St. Petersburg is not: a consumer paradise where theshelves of the stores are bursting with bounty. SoonNikolai and the others are moving back and forth between Russia and Francealmost as a daily commute. And the director,Yuri Mamin, is making jokes that Iimagine resonate a great deal more deeply, and even painfully, in Russia thanin France - or America. Thingsare not running well in Russia. The old days of top-down management have beenreplaced by indifferent anarchy, and although a class may be interrupted by ashipment of computers, there is not necessarily a reason for the computers, oranything to teach on them, or with them, and they may be headed for a fatesimilar to the pianos (which are used to conceal contraband groceries). InParis, on the other hand, there is bounty everywhere, and the movie underlinesthe plight of the Russian visitors, who focus so single-mindedly on thematerial. Asa story device, the magical mirror is promising. But Mamim doesn't do much withit - certainly nothing as biting and satirical as he might have. There is asubplot involving a French neighbor who doesn't like the noise of the visitingRussian party animals, and another subplot involving a French woman who visitsRussia, and some sight gags based on everybody getting drunk. When Nikolai'sstudents go on strike, he bribes them with a trip to Paris, and when they wantto stay, he delivers a heartfelt speech about their duty to their country. Asan example of the direction the movie might have taken, consider the momentwhen a visiting Russian explains why France is so far ahead of his motherland:"We held off the Mongol hordes for them, so they had the luxury ofdeveloping." Yes, perhaps, but what then? And did they develop in such awonderful way after all? Is Russia such a grim place that there are no jokes tobe made about the ways in which France might be flawed? Looking at the movie, Ifelt marooned in one of those lightweight multinational comedies of the 1970s,like "If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium," in which most of thejokes were based on national characteristics I didn't much care about. Advertisement