“S.F.W." is the kind of movie to inspire members ofGeneration X to lie about their age. It qualifies Forrest Gump for a geniusgrant. It is a portrait of the most singularly stupid, obnoxious character I'veseen on the screen in many a day - which would be promising, if he were notboring, as well. Themovie starsStephen Dorffas Cliff Spab, who gets his 15 minutes of fame whenhe is one of several hostages held inside a convenience store by mysterious terrorists.The hostage ordeal is telecast nonstop from security cameras inside the store,and Cliff soon becomes a global celebrity because of his nihilisticpronouncements and his debates with the terrorists and fellow hostages. Hisbasic philosophy, expressed in the movie's title, is "so (bleeping)what?" That's about as deep as it gets. Advertisement Thehostage ordeal arrives at a crisis point on Day 36, when the store runs out ofbeer. Shortly thereafter, Cliff Spab finds himself free and back on the street,the adored hero of millions, his photo on T-shirts. Unfortunately, his parentsare slow to applaud his heroism, and want him to clean up his room. He respondsby trashing his private refrigerator, filled with beer, and going on a rampagebefore stalking out of the house. Themedia hang on Cliff's every word. "Everybody wanted a piece of me,"he complains in the narration. "Trouble was, there wasn't enough of me togo around." That would have been true even if they had only wanted an itsybitsy piece, since there is very little of Cliff to begin with. He isculturally deprived, has a low I.Q., is narcissistic and alcoholic, and has oneof those vocabularies in which the most popular four-letter word is used as anall-purpose substitute for thousands of other words unknown to the speaker. Basically,Cliff's pose is that he wants to be famous for not wanting to be famous. He isa reluctant celebrity, cheered for his reluctance. This pose reaches itsabsurdist climax when Cliff stars at a rock concert. His act is rather simple.The orchestra plays "Thus Spake Zarathustra" while Cliff walksonstage and stands there, projecting reluctance to be made into a celebrity,and the audience cheers wildly. Thesayings of Cliff Spab will not soon be anthologized in those books of greatmovie lines. "If you think about it enough, you can go nuts," heopines at one point. At another, asked, "What are you rebellingagainst," he rips offMarlon Brando's famous response to the samequestion, "What have you got?" This must I think be counted as anoriginal line of Cliff's, since the movie gives no evidence that he has everheard of Marlon Brando, or anyone else. Infairness toJefery Levy, the director and cowriter, the film is intended as asatirical attack on the cult of celebrity, and it uses unconvincing lookalikesfor such notables asPhil DonahueandSam Donaldsonin scenes where TV takesCliff Spab seriously. One problem may be that Cliff Spab is seen at such greatlength that we grow very tired of him. His celebrity is no stranger, I suppose,than the attention given to other marginal personalities as Kato Kaelin andJohn WayneBobbitt, but then again we have not been made to listen to Kato orJohn W. around the clock for more than a month. It only seems as if we have. Advertisement