If there is anything worse than a parent who disapproves of yoursex life, it may be a parent who approves too much. That possibility is raised,but not explored, in "The Sum of Us," an Australian comedy about adad who is so proud of his gay son that he pokes his head into the bedroomduring sex to ask how everyone would like his tea. There'ssomething unwholesome, even creepy, about the father's cheerleading role in hisson's sex life. It's refreshingly liberated, I suppose, for the dad to take aninterest, and to quiz his son's possible sexual partners on whether theypractice safe sex. But when Dad helpfully brings home gay porno magazines andleaves them around the house, you have to wonder if there isn't something elsegoing on - something the movie remains willfully uninterested in. Advertisement "TheSum of Us" takes place in Sydney, where Jeff (Russell Crowe), a gay man inhis 20s, lives with his father, a widower named Harry (Jack Thompson). There isa history of homosexuality in the family, going back to a grandmother who had alifelong companion. Harryhas simply never bought into society's pervasive homophobia. Quitethe contrary. When Jeff brings home a new lover, the lover is nonplussed todiscover that Jeff's father not only is in the next room, but is quite cheerfulabout what might be going on in this one. Thestory, based on a play byDavid Stevens, involves the unexpected complicationsthat Jeff experiences because of his open-minded father. Jeff's problem is thathe despairs of ever finding a life partner. When he finally brings home acandidate named Greg (John Polson), Greg simply cannot handle Harry's acceptance.His own parents have no idea about his sexuality; his father is a sexist brutewho sees Greg on TV in a gay pride parade and turns mean and ugly. Greg,depressed by Harry's acceptance, bails out oftherelationship with Jeff. Thatleaves Jeff more depressed than ever, and then the plot takes a melodramaticturn that I will not reveal, except to say that it milks the poignancy ofHarry's love for his son to an almost cloying degree. Themovie betrays its stage origins in several ways, but for me the mostdistracting was how it kept "audience lines" - lines of dialogue thatmust have worked well in the theater, but seem too mannered and"written" for the movies. A sample exchange: "You know what theysay about the early bird." "Yes, but I don't think that's the kind ofworm they were referring to." Another device that gets old is the freedomthe characters have to talk directly to the camera, sometimes even turning towink at us in the middle of a scene. This can work, rarely, but here it createsa false matey feeling; Harry is so intrusive he all but asks us what we'd likein our tea. Advertisement Parentscan be your friends, yes, and your confidants, yes, and open relationshipsbetween parents and children are possible, and wonderful. But surely somerebellion is necessary as part of the maturing process; it may not be right fora parent to deprive a child of any opportunity to make a declaration ofindependence. "Parents,"Peter Ustinovonce wrote, "are thebones on which children sharpen their teeth." But not in this household,where Harry is so nosy, benevolent, curious and obtrusive that Jeff is hardlyallowed to have a life, let alone a sex life, of his own. Jeff feels some angerand frustration at his father, but not enough, I feel, and as the movie slips intoits melodramatic third act, it avoids the issues that are bubbling rightbeneath the surface of the story in order to get sidetracked with soap opera. Sometimesmovies end with little mottoes on the screen. I have an idea for this one:"Be careful what you ask for; you might get it."