“Stairway to Heaven" (1946) is one of the most audaciousfilms ever made - in its grandiose vision, and in the cozy English way it'sexpressed. The movie, which is being revived at the Music Box in a restoredTechnicolor print of dazzling beauty, joins the continuing retrospective at theFilm Center of 15 other films byMichael PowellandEmeric Pressburger, themost talented British filmmakers of the 1940s and 1950s. "This is the universe," a voice says at the beginningof "Stairway to Heaven." "Big, isn't it?" The camera pansacross the skies - but the story, as it develops, is both awesome and intimate,suggesting that a single tear shed for love might stop heaven in its tracks. Advertisement Thestory opens inside the cockpit of a British bomber going down in flames overEngland in the last days of World War II. The pilot, Peter (David Niven),establishes radio contact with a ground controller, an American named June (KimHunter). Peter is unflappable in the face of death, and an instant rapportsprings up between the two disembodied voices ("I love you, June. You'relife, and I'm leaving it"). Then Peter jumps out of the plane before itcrashes. Whatfollows is a breathtaking pastoral moment, as the pilot, somehow alive, washesashore and sees a young woman, far away, riding her bicycle home. It is, of course,June, and soon they are deeply in love. But there is a problem. Peter was notintended to live. Heaven has made an error, and an emissary, Heavenly Conductor71 (Maurice Goring) is sent to fetch him back. Peter refuses to go, and aheavenly tribunal is convened to settle the case. This fantasy is grounded inreality by a brain operation the pilot must undergo; perhaps his heavenly trialis only a by-product of the anesthetic. TheBritish title of this film was "A Matter of Life and Death," and whenthe Americans retitled it "Stairway to Heaven," Powell wrote in hisautobiography, he felt they had missed the point. But "Stairway toHeaven" may be a more expressive title, and certainly there is a stairwayin the film, part of the incredible contribution of production designer AlfredJunge, who also provides one of the most spectacular shots in movie history, aview of heaven's underside: Vast holes in the sky with tiny people peering downover the edges. The heavenly scenes are shot in black and white, and the movieis filled with technical tricks, as when "real life" freezes whilespirits leave their bodies. Thefilm's most audacious leap is to the trial in heaven to decide whether Peterwill be allowed to stay on earth. Junge creates a heavenly amphitheater thatfills the sky, and fills it with infinite ranks of heaven's population.Standing on one precipice, the prosecutor, an American played by RaymondMassey, argues against the British pilot. In one of the comic touches thatdeflates any excess profundity, he argues that Peter and June could never behappy together because they come from different cultures. First, we hear aradio broadcast of a cricket match; then an American big band broadcast. Heasks the jury: "Should the swift current of her life be slowed to thecrawl of a match of cricket?" But of course the question is not whetherPeter and June will be happily married, but whether they will be married atall, and here the tear of love, captured on a rose petal by the HeavenlyConductor, becomes crucial evidence. Advertisement "Stairwayto Heaven" has as its subtext the jockeying for power between Britain andAmerica that took place after World War II. Britishcritics, at the time, sniffed that the film was too pro-American. What today'saudiences will find amazing is the sheer energy of its invention. Powell andPressburger (who always shared the writing, directing and producing credits,and whose production company was known as the "Archers") were nottimid in reaching for new visual effects, and among the many startling sightsin "Stairway to Heaven" is an eyeball's point-of-view of its eyelidclosing,before the brainoperation. There'salso sly humor. Heaven has a Coke machine for the arriving Yanks; newlyappointed angels are seen carrying their wings under their arms in plasticdry-cleaner bags; the dialogue at the trial includes complaints like,"Would you repeat the question? It has `enamored' in it." Today'smovies are infatuated with special effects, but often they're used to createthe sight of things we can easily imagine: crashes, explosions, battles inspace. The special effects in "Stairway to Heaven" show a universethat never existed until this movie was made, and the vision is breathtaking inits originality. Asa kid,Martin Scorsesediscovered the Archers on TV, watching Million DollarMovie on a New York station that would show the same film seven days in a row.He says that's how he did his homework. It'sappropriate that the restoration of "Stairway to Heaven" and therevival of the other 15 Archers films (running at the Film Center through May)are "presented by Martin Scorsese."