Her father must not have been very bright. He left hisfirecracker factory to his daughter, Chun Zhi, and then forbade her to marry,so that the factory would stay in the family. But if she dies without children,what happens then? This is a problem that doesn't seem to have bothered ChunZhi's father, perhaps because it would undermine the entire dramatic premise of"Red Firecracker, Green Firecracker," a visually stunning new Chinesefilm with a shamelessly melodramatic plot. Themovie takes place in pre-revolutionary China, circa 1911, in a provincial townwhere the owner of the fireworks factory is the local lord. The beautiful ChunZhi (Ning Jing) takes over the factory at the age of 19, and everyone treatsher as a man, calling her "The Master." She even dresses as a man,although that only accentuates her beauty. Advertisement Theentire district is crackling with fireworks (and the sound track is pepperedwith background explosions). Maybe we are to understand that China's feudal wayof life is about to detonate. One day a local kid steals some tobacco and isabout to be severely punished when an itinerant artist comes to his defense.The artist, whose name is Nie Bao (Wu Gang), catches the eye of Chun Zhi, andsoon he is painting fish on The Master's vases. Thelocal establishment is aghast when it becomes clear that The Master has fallenin love with the intrepid artist, and that sets an intrigue in motion,masterminded by Mr. Mann (Zhao Xiaorui). Chun Zhi tries to detach from herlover, but cannot; beneath her cold exterior, The Master is a girl with acrush, and soon she cries, in the heart-rending words of melodramas from allages, "I don't want to be your master - I just want to be a woman!"Yes, but a lot of fireworks are going to explode before that day comes, andsoon Nie Bao finds himself suspended over a bed of glowing coals with his bodywrapped with fireworks; if he relaxes even a little, the first firecracker willfall into the flames, and he'll be history. Later, there is a localcompetition, for Chun Zhi's benefit, at which young men show off how bravely,and unwisely, they can handle fireworks. It's as if this sequence slipped infrom a martial arts movie. Somany of the recent movies from China have been so good that there's atemptation to expect every one to be a masterpiece. "RedFirecracker, Green Firecracker" is a magnificently mounted film (everyframe could be a photograph), and it has a lot of energy, but the plot, as youmay have guessed, is sort of silly, and the climax is all too explosive.