He is a very clean old man, who has reduced the necessities ofhis life to the point that even his one-room efficiency looks spacious. Hehas a bed, a reading chair, a floor lamp, some cabinets, and a dining table inthe kitchen area. Often he sits by the window, reading books of philosophy.Once he was a violinist. Helives in the kind of boarding house I don't think you see much anymore, exceptin the movies. One flight down is Ida, a widow, who has made her apartment intoa cozy nest. One flight up is the young couple who are always fighting. Onenight, the girl hides in his room, because she is afraid of her boyfriend. Advertisement Theold man's name is Joseph Kopple (Armin Mueller-Stahl), and he has something shewants: A key she threw out the window, and which landed on his sill. Her nameis Charlotte (Olivia d'Abo), and her life is pointed in the wrong direction,but she is still young, and not without grace. At first, he wants nothing to dowith her; his life follows an orderly routine that, in his 70s, he has nointerest in altering. Gradually, because she is desperate and he offers arefuge, they become friends. "TheLast Good Time" is really a movie about old age and passion, although aplot has been stirred in to give it structure. Theplot, not very interesting, is about how the man discovers he owes his lifesavings to the IRS, and about how the girl was involved in a deal with herboyfriend that may get her some money, or a lot of trouble. (If this were aEuropean film, it would be about their personalities and daily lives, and thatwould be enough.) Joseph's best friend is Howard (Lionel Stander), who used tobe a neighbor but is now spending his last days in a hospital bed. "I'm soold, my future is blank," he says. He likes to talk about sex, and Josephobliges him. Women have changed since they were young: "Now, they tell youwhat they want you to do!" The movie is essentially about how Joseph findshis life is not over, how Charlotte begins to see larger possibilities for herown, and how Joseph's feelings for the downstairs neighbor (Maureen Stapleton)change from rudeness (he thinks she is nosy) to acceptance. It is all handledwith great civility byBob Balaban, who directed and co-wrote the screenplaywithJohn McLaughlin. I suppose it is more or less obligatory that Joseph andCharlotte have a love scene, and they do, but it is handled with suchgentleness by Balaban that it's not the intrusion it could have been.("This isn't gonna kill you, is it?" she asks.) Just spending timewith these people would have been enough. Mueller-Stahlcreates his character with great precision and restraint, and the early scenesare a reminder that a good actor can be fascinating even while doing absolutelynothing: We wonder what he's trying to hide. The subplot involving Ida is toomechanical for the subtlety of the story; we can see the payoff coming milesaway, and when it arrives, it's perfunctory and unconvincing. Better to end ona minor chord, I think, with loneliness settling in again. Themovie is worth seeing, I think, for Mueller-Stahl, and for the blunt, outspokencharm of Lionel Stander, who died not long after he filmed this role, havingplayed his death scenes here with an unsentimental acceptance I imagine he musthave found quite fulfilling. Advertisement