In Japan, animation is not just for family films. There's abooming industry in all kinds of animated films, including adult drama, comedyand even eroticism, and the leading directors are as well known as Spielberg orTarantino. The genre is often called Japanimation, but its fans scorn that termand prefer "anime," a Japanese word with English origins. "TheWings of Honneamise," made in 1987 but only now opening in the UnitedStates, is one of the most ambitious of all anime productions, a visuallysensational two-hour extravaganza about an unkempt and disorganized young pilotnamed Shirotsugh, or Shiro, who signs up for the Royal Space Force afterfailing to make the grade as a Navy pilot. He seems on track to become thefirst man in space, little suspecting the sinister reasons why anyone wouldrisk such an important flight on an officer as shabby as he is. Advertisement TheRoyal Space Force? Where is it based? The movie takes place on a planet that isnot exactly the earth; a closing shot from space reveals that the continentsand seas have a different arrangement. This world is sort of Japanese and sortof American, and in it an uneasy peace has been reached. Thekingdom's space program has never been taken seriously, and consists of gung-hopilots and misfit scientists who hang around inventing stuff like old-timebarnstormers. (An early scene involves funeral services for a pilot whose urinebag leaked, allowing his space suit to electrocute him.) The Space Force isamazed when its first manned space shot is given priority. Butwhen the leaders of the kingdom move the launch pad close to its border with aneighboring state, Shiro discovers the reason: They hope the rocket will beseen as provocation, inspiring an attack and justifying war. Meanwhile,Shiro is on a collision course with his feckless nature. He meets a young womannamed Leiqunni, a fundamentalist who passes out leaflets urging people to trustGod. She befriends him and brings him to her home, where, in the sort of sceneyou won't see from Disney, he attempts to rape her and she knocks him out witha statue to the head. The next morning he attempts to "apologize,"but she brushes him off and forgives him, inspiring him to take his destinymore seriously. This sort of sudden sexual violence is typical of both animeand Japanese comic books. "TheWings of Honneamise" was directed byHiroyuki Yamaga, only 24 at the time,whose drawing style is influenced both by comic books and by the graphic styleof the great 19th Century Japanese artist, Hiroshige (whose work also inspiredHerge, the creator of "Tintin," Europe's most popular comic hero). Thefilm doesn't use the Disney style of "full animation," but insteadgoes for more sensational set-ups and backgrounds, dramatic camera angles, andmontages of details - just like American comic books. Advertisement Althoughsome of the foreground movements are not as real istic as in a Disney picture,the press notes say "Honneamise" was hand-drawn frame-by-frame;anime's defenders argue that animation should not mimic life but stylize it.The artists visited Cape Kennedy and the National Air and Space Museum onsketching expeditions, and the animated launch looks uncannily like the realthing. The look of the characters is based on Hollywood stars:Treat Williams,youngTatum O'Neal,Lee Van CleefandHarrison Ford. The score is by RyuichiSakamoto, who won an Oscar for "The Last Emperor." One reason theJapanese like anime so much is that it isn't limited by budgets or specialeffects problems. Anything that can be drawn can be shown, and the artists canuse bizarre angles or forced perspectives to create unexpected effects. One ofthe pleasures of the film is simply enjoying Yamaga's visual imagination, as inamontage at the end, which showsthe planet's suffering and turmoil. He also has an offbeat dramatic style,including pregnant pauses where the characters simply look at one another. Notmany examples of anime have played the American theatrical circuit; we're notused to non-family or non-Disney use of the medium. "Akira," anapocalyptic epic, has become a best-seller on video, and the wonderful "MyNeighbor Totoro" has been embraced by many parents and children as aspecial and charming family film. Yet anime fans are a vocal underground, thegenre is popular on video and on campuses, and supporters claim that thetrademark of anime - the large, dark eyes of the characters - has beenappropriated by Disney in all its films since "The Little Mermaid."If you're curious about anime, "The Wings of Honneamise," playing forone week at the Music Box, is a good place to start.