In the opening scenes of "Gordy," some men in a truckcome to a struggling family farm to load up a mother pig and her piglets andcart them away. "Can't blame folks for selling their livestock; they needcash," they say, as if the natural inclination of farmers would be tosupport their animals until they die of old age. Theseare no ordinary pigs, however, as we discover when we meet Gordy, a piglet wholuckily misses being shipped to the fattening-farm. Gordy is some pig. Hespeaks English, for example - in a high-pitched voice that's intercut with allsorts of snorts and squeaks. And he trots around on his little feet like a pigwith a mission. He's determined to find his family and save them from hickorysmoking. Advertisement Gordy(who was born not far from the historic town of Hope, Ark.) hits the road, andis soon adopted by a little girl who sings with her father in a country band.Her name is Jinnie Sue MacAllister (Kristy Young), and she moves Gordy into herbunk in the family motor home. In one of those movie moments kids alwaysespecially like, her dad, a widower named Luke (Doug Stone), gets a good-nightkiss from the pig and thinks it's his daughter. Theodyssey continues. Luke's band plays at the governor's mansion, where a youngboy named Hanky (Michael Roescher) falls into the pool and nearly drowns -until he is rescued, of course, by the quick-thinking Gordy. Thepig becomes a hero (he even gets a call from President Clinton), and is adoptedas the trademark of a company owned by Hanky's rich grandfather. Meanwhile, hestill wants to find his family before they end up arrayed in slices on eitherside of a short stack. Pigsare not my favorite animal, but I am aware of the arguments that they are amongthe most intelligent of the barnyard animals (they're smarter than horses,according to Johnny Carson, who had a long-running debate on the subject withEd McMahon). Gordy, however, has a certain (very limited) charm, and the humanstory - which has the single parents of Hanky and Jinnie Sue falling in love tocountry music - has a cornball appeal. Thisis not the kind of film that rewards deep analysis. I rate it at two stars, butI'd recommend it for kids. I can't recommend it for people like me, but thereare many other kinds of people in the world, some of them children who believethat pigs can talk, and for them, "Gordy" is likely to be veryentertaining. You know who you are.