“A Little Princess" is another magical family film based ona book byFrances Hodgson Burnett, whose work also inspired "The SecretGarden." Both films approach the characters of her children with calmsolemnity and delight, placing them in vast, wonderful, frightening houses, andallowing them to discover some of the lessons of life there. Unlike the insipiddevices of most family films, Burnett's plots understand that children takestories very seriously indeed, and that all stories are really about theuncertain place of the child in the mysterious world of adults. Advertisement "ALittle Princess," which opens just before World War I, tells the story ofSara Crewe (Liesel Matthews), who until the age of 10 or 11 is raised by herfather in India. Then her father finds it his duty to go off and fight in thewar, and he places Sara in a magnificent private school in New York, run by aforbidding headmistress named Miss Minchin (Eleanor Bron), who is impressed byCapt. Crewe's wealth and assigns little Sara to a suite so luxurious, it couldhave been decorated by Cecil Beaton. MissMinchin's school, like most of the places in the movie, is obviously a set, andno less fascinating for that. It crouches at the end of a street like thepalace of a Victorian robber baron, and inside, the glistening hardwood floorsreflect the light of high stained-glass windows. But all is not an idyll here;in her first moments at the school, Sara notices Becky (Vanessa Lee Chester), ablack girl in a simple dress, mopping the floor. Sarasoon becomes the most popular girl in school because of her ability to spinfantasies out of mundane materials. Give her a boring child's book to readaloud, and in her hands it will become a legend from India. Most of the girlsquickly idolize her, and one who doesn't, a spiteful little snob with longhair, is warned by Sara, in what sounds like a display of supernaturalprescience, "I wouldn't brush my hair as much if I were you." Thenone day, Sara's birthday party is interrupted with an ominous command: "Goto your room and get a simple black dress." There has been a majorreversal in her life, and soon she's sharing attic quarters with Becky. Whathappens then depends on large servings of coincidence, fate, melodrama andadventure, and is thoroughly satisfactory in all of those departments. MissMinchin reveals herself as a cold snob, and Bron's performance is all the moreeffective because it is cool and contained, instead of going over the top intocartoon exaggeration. "If you fail to meet the standards of thisinstitution," she informs Sara at one low point, "you will beexpelled. The streets of this city are not kind to homeless orphans.""A Little Princess" was directed by the Mexican bornAlfonso Cuaron,and produced byMark Johnson, the producer on such films as "Good Morning,Vietnam" and "Avalon." I mention both, because it iswell-directed and produced: Cuaron's version of magic realism consists ofseeing incredibly fanciful sets and situations in precise detail, and Johnsonhas provided him with the freedom and logistical support to create such placesas the street where Miss Minchin's school looms so impressively. Imaginationis a precious gift, and too many films hammer it down into submissiveness.Children sit transfixed before films and TV shows that substitute action forfancy; cartoon characters fly through space and blast one another endlessly,providing kids with the impression of a story without the substance. Movieslike "A Little Princess" and "The Secret Garden" (now onvideo) contain a sense of wonder, and a message: The world is a vast andchallenging place, through which a child can find its way with pluck andintelligence. It is about a girl who finds it more useful to speak French thanto fire a ray gun. I know there are more kids this season who want to see"Judge Dredd," "Die Hard With a Vengeance" and the newBatman movie than kids who want to see "A Little Princess," and Ifeel sorry for them. Advertisement