“Love and Human Remains" fashions a strange alliance out ofsexual politics, serial murder and the dating game. All of its characters areseriously immature and narcissistic - obsessed with their own images andorgasms - but that's the strength of the movie. Its weakness is the way it usessoap opera to veer away from its real concerns. The result is kind of a mess,but an intriguing one; it's not a very good movie, but you don't stop watchingit. Thestory, based on Brad Fraser's play "Unidentified Human Remains and theTrue Nature of Love" takes place in a Canadian city where a serial killeris stalking young women. The killer is one of the characters in the story, andif you can't figure out which one, you're not paying attention to the earrings.The story would play better, I think, without the killings or the killer; I wasmore interested in the relationships, as characters experiment with theirsexuality, than with a plot device dragged in fromDavid Lynchmovies. Advertisement Thecentral character is David (Thomas Gibson), a former TV actor who is nowworking as a waiter, and who has cultivated a sardonic, cynical pose ofperpetual amusement. He lives with Candy (Ruth Marshall), who was his loveruntil he decided he was gay. (Cominghome at night, he opens the door and shouts, "Honey! I'm homo!") Hisbest friend is Benita (Mia Kirshner), a prostitute specializing in a curiousform of S&M (her speciality is tying people up and telling them UrbanLegends like the one about the "dog" under the bed). She's psychic,by the way, which is probably a great help when trying to anticipate the needsof her clients. Oneday at work, David is approached by a young busboy named Kane (MatthewFerguson), who is fascinated by David's gay lifestyle and thinks maybe he'sgay, too. It's more likely he's simply hero-worshipping the older guy, whoaffects a bemused superiority; poor Kane never feels bemused or superior.Meanwhile, continuing the theme of revolving lifestyles, Candy (remember her?David's roommate and former lover?) thinks she may be gay, and has an affairwith Jerri (Joanne Vannicola). Or is she just getting back at David, whoflaunts his promiscuity? On the stage, these character combinations probablyprovided a springboard for a series of revealing and comic conversations (thecentral set was a rumpled bed). Film, with its greater realism, has to strainto get all of these people into the same plot. Thedirector,Denys Arcand, specializes in large, loosely linked groups of friends(his credits include "Jesus of Montreal" and "Decline of theAmerican Empire"). At least he doesn't hammer at absurdity the way Lynchdid in "Wild at Heart." He plays every scene for the truth of thecharacters, and he has a strong unifying force in David, whose attempts to stayaloof and cynical are, we sense, just a way of hiding from his own pain. Ifthe story is eventually absurd, then, the characters aren't. Oneof the most interesting is Candy, the hooker, played by Mia Kirshner, who wasthe table dancer in "Exotica," earlier this year. Toboth roles she brings a kind of ethereal detachment, as if she's givingspiritual, not physical, solace. I also liked the painful sincerity of Kane,the busboy, whose seriousness about life - make that Life - is typical ofteenagers. What I didn't like was the way Arcand and Fraser, the writer,distrusted the basic human values in their story, and laid on the serial killeras a way of disguising drama as merely melodrama. Advertisement