They used to make movies about young women who were earnestlibrarians, and wore horn-rim glasses, and put their hair up in buns, and neverhad any fun. Atabout the half-hour mark, the Cary Grant type would deliver the immortal line,"You know . . . when you take off your glasses and let down your hair -you're beautiful!" And then the librarian would be freed from herenslavement to the Dewey Decimal System to embark on a life of romance. Itis perhaps an omen of the times we live in that "Party Girl" reversesthis formula. As the movie begins, our 23-year-old heroine, Mary (Parker Posey)is being arrested for throwing a wild party. Advertisement Eventuallyshe is evicted from her Manhattan apartment for nonpayment of rent, at aboutthe same time she develops a crush on a falafel vendor. Is there any hope forher? Her godmother, who works at the library, offers her a job as a clerk, andMary puts on horn-rim glasses and announces she wants a job in library science.I cannot remember if she does her hair up in a bun. Maryis one of those free spirits in a line coming down from Holly Golightly throughAnnie Hall to Nola Darling in "She's Gotta Have It." She creates herown fashions, marches to her own drummer and is prepared to pay the price. Theproblem is that the price has gone up. To lead the life of a free spirit inManhattan, you need an apartment, and although Mary valiantly tries to supportherself by throwing rent parties, the rent these days requires too manyparties. Maybeshe could get a . . . job? The movie supplies an inventory of what she's goodat: "partying, flirting, making stuff up . . ." She's plucky andresilient, however, and maybe that's what attracts Mustafa (Omar Townsend), whohas a sidewalk falafel cart and is so attractive that she goes out and buys aLebanese phrase book just so she can get his attention. Mustafais a nice guy. Too nice, maybe, to be an enabler for Mary. The other men in herlife are not the answer, either. Certainly not Leo (Guillermo Diaz), who isapparently her roommate, although they both lead such unsettled lives it ishard to say for sure. He works as a disc jockey in clubs. Then there's her gayfriend Derrick (Anthony DeSando), who tries to be a good sport every time shegets another party idea, but whose energy as her cheerleader is flagging. Mary'slife arrives at a crisis point. She has been fired from her library job formore or less total incompetence (she hears "Origin of Species" as"oranges and peaches"). She's been evicted yet again. And in a wildgesture in Mustafa's direction, she throws a party with a Middle Eastern themeand then gets so strung out on drugs and whatnot that she spoils it all. "PartyGirl" is obviously inspired by great affection for Mary on the part ofDaisy von Scherler Mayer, who directed the movie and co-wrote it with HarryBirckmayer. But the movie consists of sketches that don't quite hang togetherand characters who are not quite developed. Consider, for example, Rene (DonnaMitchell), who runs a club and is a recovering alcoholic. Here is an idea for acharacter, but the movie never really looks at her; it just throws dialogue ather to make her "interesting." And so we hear her ask her bartenderfor a "mocktail," a word I have never heard used in a bar or anywhereelse except by Martha Stewart. It's as if they thought of her, but not abouther. Asfor Mary, her life is disorganized, yes, but the script could neverthelessorganize its approach to her, so that the audience wouldn't feel as confused asshe is most of the time. It's a showcase leading role for Parker Posey (who hadsupporting roles in "Mixed Nuts," "Dazed and Confused,""Amateur" and "Sleep With Me"), who obviously has thestuff, and generates wacky charm. But the movie never pulls itself together. Advertisement