Having made the splendidly entertaining "CinemaParadiso" in 1988,Giuseppe Tornatorenow exhibits his versatility with"A Pure Formality," which is not entertaining at all. This is a grim,relentless, depressing shaggy dog movie with a surprise ending that explainseverything - and, therefore, nothing. Themovie opens with a gunshot, and then with a man running desperately through therain. He is stopped by policemen, who bring him to a command post, which is ina shabby house in the middle of a wet and gloomy forest. What is his crime? Hashe committed a crime? Has a crime been committed? These and many, many otherquestions will be pondered before his interrogation is over. Advertisement Theman is played byGerard Depardieu, that most dependable and familiar of Frenchactors, and the inspector (known only as the Inspector) is played by RomanPolanski. It will help if you are familiar with the interesting careers ofDepardieu and Polanski, since then you can think about them while watching thescreen. Anythingto pass the time. Mostof the film takes place within the same leaky room. Waterdrips from the ceiling into buckets on the floor. Younger officers come and go,and an old man mops up and shakes his head sadly. We learn that Onoff, theDepardieu character, is a famous writer, and that the Inspector knows most ofhis work, great swaths of it by heart. We also learn that Onoff has led acomplicated life, not always to the highest standard, and that the Inspectormay be judging him for more than the events of a single evening. Nowabout that name. Onoff. On. Off. Is it symbolic? It could be. Yet the film isin French, by an Italian director, and the wordplay is in English. That ispermitted, I suppose, since French words sometimes make puns in English movies.If it is symbolic, it symbolizes something terrifically obvious, and the samecan be said for the movie. Theperformances are fine. They are not at the service of interesting material.Polanski himself, at about the same time, made "Death and theMaiden," a similar film about a long night's conversation andinterrogation. It is much better. Bythe end of the film, amid reminders of Kafka and Beckett, we learn the answerto the strange night's interrogation. Some members of the audience will have guessedit. Others will have feared it. Few will find it worth the wait.