Like a lot of French films, "Wild Reeds" opens with awedding. But it is a wedding of desperation, not romance. It is 1962, near theend of the Algerian war that bitterly divided France. The groom has beenserving in the army in Algeria, and during the wedding feast, he confesses to aformer teacher that the only reason he got married was to go on leave. He begsthe teacher, a Communist Party member, to hide him so he won't have to return.There is a bond of love between them, but she refuses. Three days later, he isgone, and soon after that, he is dead. Advertisement Thewedding has introduced many of the key players in the story, although at firstwe don't realize who they are. The teacher, Madame Alvarez (Michele Moretti),has a daughter named Maite (Elodie Bouchez) who is a student in the school. Aboy named Francois (Gael Morel) is her best friend. Another of his closefriends is Serge (Stephane Rideau), the younger brother of the dead soldier. Atthe funeral, as Serge runs away, blinded by tears, Francois sends Maite afterhim: "Only you can help him." Maite says something awkward about thebrother's heroism, but Serge says bitterly, "He wanted to escape. Ask yourmother." The war, which seemed far away from the quiet provincial school,now seems closer, and it comes closer still with the arrival of a new student:Henri (Frederic Gorny). He is a ped noir, an Algerian-born Frenchman, who hasfled with his family. Francoisis uncertain of his sexuality, and his confusion is complicated byinexperience. Maite is his best friend, but they keep at arm's length from eachother. His secret is that he is attracted to Serge, a boarding school veteranwho thinks nothing of it when they do have sex, but is not homosexual anddoesn't want any deeper involvement with Francois. Serge, in fact, is attractedto Maite. AndFrancois is tormented by his feelings, staring in his mirror and callinghimself names. Allof this perhaps sounds more steamy than it is. DirectorAndre Techine, who saysthe story is based on his own memories, wants to show his characters in themiddle of political and personal upheaval, and the character of the Communistteacher is important because she brings her feelings about the Algerian warinto the classroom, causing her students to question government policy at thesame time they question their own values. Theyare also, after all, teenagers, and the soundtrack of the movie is heavy withhit records of the period (even some by the Beach Boys). And yet the movie isnot nostalgic in the way that, say, "American Graffiti" was. Youngpeople in France often take intellectuals as their heroes, and Camus wasprobably more important to these kids than Elvis. They are thoughtful, theytalk earnestly, they feel deeply. WhenFrancois becomes convinced that he is gay, he reacts in a way that would seemstrange to an American teenager. He has known for some time that the man whoruns the shoe store in town is evidently a homosexual. So, Francois goesdowntown and enters the store - for what? To ask the man what it means to begay, and how one goes about it? Probably, although Francois loses his nerve.But his impulse is revealing. He believes that if he asks the right questions,he can get the answers he needs. "WildReeds"" is one of the most honored of recent French films; it won theCesar, France's equivalent of the Oscar, as the best film of 1994, defeating"Queen Margot" and "Red." I have a suspicion it resonatesmore deeply for the French than it can for us, because the period of theAlgerian war resonates in their emotions the way Vietnam would for us. Some ofthe political undertones may go astray, but the emotional center of the film istouching and honest. Advertisement