Anthony LaPagliawas born with a woeful countenance, but hisface looks even more sad near the beginning of "Bulletproof Heart,"as he sits on the bed of a man he has just killed. He watches TV - the sameprogram his victim was watching when LaPaglia murdered him. The program doesnot amuse him. After a while, he reaches over and tests the man's pulse, to besure he is dead. The mark of a professional. LaPagliaplays Mick, a hired killer. He has theories about his job, which he sometimes shareswith Archie (Matt Craven), who admires him and wants to be just like him."A man should not confide," he says. And, "When a man has thegun in his hand, he does not hesitate." LaPaglia is ready for a rest afterhis latest hit. Then his friend George (Peter Boyle) walks in, with a job thathas to be done tonight. Advertisement It'sa woman who stiffed him for $650,000. The strange thing is, the woman wants tobe killed. Mick can't understand this: "Then why hasn't she already beenkilled?" he asks. "I was gonna whack her myself," George says."I couldn't do it. I'm crazy about the broad." Mick protests. He istired. He is busy. George persists: "She wants it tonight, or she told meshe's going to the D.A. in the morning." Mick reluctantly agrees. He takesArchie along. They go to the woman's apartment. Archiewaits outside. She is throwing a party for herself, to celebrate her impendingdeath. She sends the guests away. She is fascinated by Mick. They start totalk. "Do you shoot them? Where?" she asks. He says, "In Jersey,mostly." She seduces him, ties him to the bed, ravishes him, then pourschampagne on his scratches. We are beginning to understand why George found ithard to kill her. "BulletproofHeart," written byGordon Melbourneand directed byMark Malone, exploresthe same dilemma as "Guests of the Nation," that Irish short story byFrank O'Connor about the guards who became friendly with their prisoner andfound it hard to kill him. (The same idea is employed at the start of "TheCrying Game.") The difference here is that the woman wants to die, fordeep reasons that we eventually realize are sincere. If Mick really cares abouther, her reasoning goes, he will kill her: "You be brave for me, OK?"The woman's name is Fiona, and she is played byMimi Rogers, who in "TheRapture" (1991) and again here shows a woman in the grip of an obsession.This time, there is no ambivalence: She has not theslightest doubt, apparently, that shewants to die. That puts everything in the hands of Mick, who prides himself onhis workmanlike approach to his job. "When you kill someone . . . ,"he tells her, "the flow of life, the hum of voices in a restaurant, isn'tany less." Sometimes he talks about "the meaning of meaning."The long night moves on, with Archie providing the comic counterpoint. At onepoint, they end up in a cemetery, eating Chinese takeout food. They talk inthat way two strangers can, when they know they will never see each otheragain. What is strange is why they will never see each other again. Atthe end, when they come to the moment of truth, we think we know what thealternatives are. But we are surprised by the form the truth takes - how, andwhy. The movie is thoughtful, surprising and haunting.