"Toy Story" creates a universe out of a couple ofkid's bedrooms, a gas station, and a stretch of suburban highway. Its heroesare toys, which come to life when nobody is watching. Its conflict is betweenan old-fashioned cowboy who has always been a little boy's favorite toy, andthe new space ranger who may replace him. The villain is the mean kid next doorwho takes toys apart and puts them back together again in macabre combinations.And the result is a visionary roller-coaster ride of a movie. Advertisement Forthe kids in the audience, a movie like this will work because it tells a funstory, contains a lot of humor, and is exciting to watch. Older viewers may beeven more absorbed, because "Toy Story," the first feature madeentirely by computer, achieves a three-dimensional reality and freedom ofmovement that is liberating and new. The more you know about how the movie wasmade, the more you respect it. Imaginethe spectacular animation of the ballroom sequence in "Beauty and theBeast" at feature length and you'll get the idea. The movie doesn't simplyanimate characters in front of painted backdrops; it fully animates thecharactersandthe space they occupy, and allows itspoint of view to move freely around them. Computer animation has grown soskillful that sometimes you don't even notice it (the launching in "Apollo13" took place largely within a computer). Here, youdonotice it, because you're careeningthrough space with a new sense of freedom. Considerfor example a scene where Buzz Lightyear, the new space toy, jumps off a bed,bounces off a ball, careens off of the ceiling, spins around on a hanging toyhelicopter and zooms into a series of loop-the-loops on a model car race track.Watch Buzz, the background, and the perspective -- which stretches andcontracts to manipulate the sense of speed. It's an amazing ride. Ilearn from the currentWiredmagazine that the movie occupied theattention of a bank of 300 powerful Sun microprocessors, the fastest modelsaround, which took about 800,000 hours of computing time to achieve this andother scenes -- at 2 to 15 hours per frame. Each frame required as much as 300MBs of information, which means that on my one-gigabyte hard disk, I have roomfor about three frames, or an eighth of a second. Of course computers are asdumb as a box of bricks if they're not well-programmed, and director JohnLasseter, a pioneer in computer animation, has used offbeat imagination andhigh energy to program his. Butenough of this propeller-head stuff. Let's talk about the movie. Lasseter andhis team open the film in a kid's bedroom, where the toys come to life whentheir owner is absent. Undisputed king of the toys is Woody, a cowboy with avoice byTom Hanks. His friends include Mr. Potato Head (Don Rickles), SlinkyDog (Jim Varney), Hamm the Pig (John Ratzenberger) and Bo Peep (Annie Potts).The playroom ingeniously features famous toys from real life toys (which may beproduct placement, but who cares), including a spelling slate that does arunning commentary on key developments (when Mr. Potato Head finally achieveshis dream of Mrs. Potato Head, the message is "Hubba! Hubba!). Advertisement Oneday there's a big shakeup in this little world. The toy owner, named Andy, hasa birthday. Woody dispatches all of the troops in a Bucket of Soldiers to spyon developments downstairs, and they use a Playskool walkie-talkie to broadcastdevelopments. The most alarming: The arrival on the scene of Buzz Lightyear(Tim Allen), a space ranger. Buzzis the most endearing toy in the movie, because he's not in on the joke. Hethinks he's a real space ranger, temporarily marooned during a crucial mission,and he goes desperately to work trying to repair his space ship -- thecardboard box he came in. There's real poignancy later in the film when he seesa TV commercial for himself, and realizes he's only a toy. Theplot heats up when the human family decides to move, and Woody and Buzz findthemselves marooned in a gas station with no idea how to get home. (It puts awhole new spin on the situation when a toy itself says, "I'm a losttoy!") And later there's a terrifying interlude in the bedroom of Sid, thedreadful boy next door, who takes his toys apart and reassembles them likecreatures from a nightmare. (His long suffering sister is forced to hold a teaparty for headless dolls.) Seeing"Toy Story," I felt some of the same exhilaration I felt during"Who Framed Roger Rabbit." Both movies take apart the universe ofcinematic visuals, and put it back together again, allowing us to see in a newway. "Toy Story" is not as inventive in its plotting or as clever inits wit as "Rabbit" or such Disney animated films as "Beauty andthe Beast"; it's pretty much a buddy movie transplanted to new terrain.Its best pleasures are for the eyes. But what pleasures they are! Watching thefilm, I felt I was in at the dawn of a new era of movie animation, which drawson the best of cartoons and reality, creating a world somewhere in between,where space not only bends but snaps, crackles and pops.