There is a shot near the beginning of "I Am Cuba" thatis one of the most astonishing I have ever seen. Reflect that it was made in1964, long before the days of lightweight cameras and Steadicams, and the shotis almost impossible to explain. Itbegins on a rooftop deck of a luxury hotel in pre-Castro Havana. A beautypageant is in progress. The camera sinuously winds its way past bathingbeauties, and then moves over the edge of the deck and descends vertically,apparently floating, down three or four stories to another deck, this one witha swimming pool. The camera approaches a bar, and then follows a waitress asshe delivers a drink to some tourists, after which one of the tourists standsup and walks into the pool - and the camera follows her, so that the shot endswith the camera actually underwater. Advertisement Asnearly as I can tell, this is all done in one unbroken take. How it was done, Ihave no idea. It is interesting not only for its technical skill, but alsobecause it betrays a certain interest in la dolce vita that is not entirely inkeeping with the movie's revolutionary, agitprop stance. "IAm Cuba" is an anti-American propaganda film, made as a Cuban-Sovietco-production, that has been snatched from oblivion, restored, and released inthe United States as a presentation ofMartin ScorseseandFrancis Coppola.Since the film's prediction of a brave new world under Fidel Castro has notresulted in a utopia for Cubans, who suffer under one of the world's mostdismal bureaucracies, the film today seems naive and dated - but fascinating. TheSoviets fielded a first-class team of advisers to help in the production. Thescript was co-authored byYevgeny Yevtushenko, then the USSR's poeticsuperstar, andEnrique Pineda Barnet, a Cuban novelist. It was directed by theveteran Russian filmmakerMikhail Kalatozov, then 61, whose "The Cranesare Flying" (1957) had won the Palme d'Or at Cannes a few years earlier.That film featured spectacular camera techniques, but they are upstaged by hisopener in "I Am Cuba" and by some of the other sequences, which owemuch to Fellini's influential "La Dolce Vita" (1960). Themovie is didactic in the best tradition of Socialist Realism. First, it showsCuba groaning under the yoke of Yankee imperialism. Then it shows resistance, bybrave farmers and heroic students. Finally, there is the appearance of a greatrevolutionary hero, a bearded man of the people who fights in the hills, issheltered by peasants and represents Fidel Castro. Theanti- American content is handled in a nightclub scene, where gum-chewingYankees ogle the prostitutes, and one amateur anthropologist announces,"I'd like to see where these women live." Against her betterjudgment, a girl takes the man home to her shack, where he offends her byoffering to buy her crucifix. Worse, they are discovered by her fiancé, ahumble fruit peddler, who believed she was a virgin. This sequence, heavy onschmaltz, nevertheless has a real poignancy. Advertisement Thefilm is not done with Americans. We see drunken American sailors chasing womenthrough the streets, and follow the story of a hard-working peasant whose landsand home are snatched by the United Fruit Co. Rather than surrender his canefields, he sets them afire. Thenwe see the resistance: students agitating the change, including one whomimeographs propaganda pamphlets and then is shot dead, his body covered in asnow of the revolutionary sheets. Kalatozov'sfancy shots are not limited to the opening extravaganza. There is a sequencelater in the film that begins with the streets filling with demonstrators andthen seemingly floats, in an unbroken take, into a high-rise cigar factory. Histechnique seems somewhat at odds with his purpose (you won't find shots likethese in Italian neo-realism), but then the movie itself alternates betweenlyricism and propaganda. Along with the scenes of evil Yankees and braveCastroites, there are astonishing helicopter shots of Cuban landscapes, andpoetry and prose are read on the soundtrack (Columbus is quoted: "This isthe most beautiful land ever seen by human eyes"). Themovie, now in limited distribution before a video release, is of course datedin its politics. Even its depravities and imperialist Yankee misbehavior seemquaint. But as an example of lyrical black and white filmmaking, it is stillstunning. If you see it, try to figure out how the camera floated down thatwall.