The movie uses the flimsiest of plots as an excuse to stringtogether astonishing action sequences in which Chan exhibits the physical graceand athletic control of aBuster Keaton. The rhythm of the movie becomes predictable. There's perfunctorydialogue (involving the disposable plot), bad guys appear, and Chan springsinto action. He uses the martial arts to defeat whole gangs of thugs, yes, buthe also uses whatever tools and props are at hand. In "Rumble,"there's a sequence where he uses refrigerators, another one where he improviseswith furniture, one involving perfect timing with a knife and another fight -in a grocery store - where he does something amazing with a grocery cart. Advertisement JackieChan is famous for always doing his own stunts, and his fans wait eagerly forthe end of his films, because they know that along with the closing creditsthey'll see outtakes of the stunts that went wrong. "Rumble in theBronx" has its share. There's one scene where Chan jumps off the top of abuilding and lands on a fire escape landing across an alley and two or threefloors below. He broke his ankle on that one. In the outtakes, we can seeambulances arriving, blood spreading, and lots of laughs as Jackie hides a castunder his blue jeans for the next day's shooting. Butit's not the stunts themselves that make "Rumble in the Bronx"special. It'sJackie Chan's high spirits and infectious personality. Here's aChinese man, about 40, who resembles nobody so much as Tom Hayden, and whosenose looks as if it is broken regularly. He's pleasant but not handsome,athletic but not tall, and his acting in this movie is perfunctory; he'swaiting for the action like the rest of us. Hedoesn't view himself with great solemnity. He gets the joke. And he seems to beenjoying himself.George C. Scottsaid a sign of a good actor is his ability toproject "the joy of performance." Chan breathes that joy. There's alighthearted air about "Rumble in the Bronx" that's infectious, ifyou open yourself up to it. Notthat this is a masterpiece. The movie is just plain goofy. It's set in theBronx but was photographed in Vancouver. Its Bronx has a golf course withmountains in the background. After scenes that are obviously not set anywherenear New York, it throws in a canned shot of the Manhattan skyline, asreassurance. And the plot (Jackie visits his uncle, helps him sell his grocerystore, then befriends the young woman who has bought it) is simply aclothesline for the stunts and action. There'sunintentional hilarity in the motorcycle gang that supplies the villains forthe first half of the movie (before becoming Jackie's allies against the realbad guys). They look and talk like "Baywatch" rejects. In one scene,they fake an assault on a young woman (Francise Yip) simply to lure Jackie intoa trap. They beat him to a pulp. Later, after Jackie has befriended Yip'slittle brother, who is wheelchair bound, she admits, "Sometimes we go toofar." Meanwhile, the other bad guys think stolen diamonds are hidden inthe cushion of the wheelchair. And so on. Anyattempt to defend this movie on rational grounds is futile. Don't tell me aboutthe plot and the dialogue. Don't dwellonthe acting. The whole point is Jackie Chan - and, like Astaire and Rogers, hedoes what he does better than anybody. There is a physical confidence, a grace,an elegance to the way he moves. There is humor to the choreography of thefights (which are never too gruesome). He'shaving fun. If we allow ourselves to get in the right frame of mind, so are we. Advertisement