"The Truth About Cats & Dogs" is one of thosewarm-hearted, quick-footed comedies that's light as a feather, fueled bycoincidence, and depends above all on the luminosity of its performers. JaneaneGarofalo in this movie, likeSandra Bullockin "While You WereSleeping," is so likable, so sympathetic, so revealing of her character'sdoubts and desires, that she carries us headlong into the story. Garofalo plays Abby, a veterinarian who gives advice to petowners over a talk radio station in Santa Monica, Calif. Her callers have thesorts of problems I suspect all pet owners secretly have. One is concernedabout a cat, which won't stop licking its owner's face. Another has depressedfish. A third is trying to deal with a Great Dane on roller skates. The dog isa pretty good skater, but it has understandably grown disturbed, and won't letanyone near it. Advertisement Thislast caller is Brian (Ben Chaplin), and as he talks we see his Great Danewhizzing past on skates. It's the kind of surrealistic image that blindsidesyou; beyond language, beyond logic, it's intrinsically funny. As Abby dispensesadvice about roller-skating dogs, Brian finds himself strangely attracted toher voice -- to its intelligence and tone, and to a quality that calls out tosome need within him. Heasks Abby to meet him. "Why," she asks, "would I meet a listenerI know nothing about except that he puts roller skates on his dog?" Butthere is something in his voice, maybe in his British accent, that appeals to aneed in her, and God knows she's needy, since her social life is in disrepair.She agrees to meet him. He asks how he will recognize her. Abby is struck withan attack of insecurity; she doesn't think of herself as attractive, and so shedescribes a person who is her opposite: "I'm tall, and blond..." Sheknows such a person: Noelle (Uma Thurman), her neighbor, whose romantic life iscrumbling (Noelle has a bully for a boyfriend, who thinks nothing of breakingthe bow of Abby's violin over his knee). When Brian calls for her at the radiostation, Abby in desperation begs Noelle to go out with him -- to pretend to beher. But poor Noelle is not very bright. At least not when she is with Brian,and pretending to be Abby. When Brian goes home and calls Abby on the phone,however, a miraculous transformation seems to take place; Abby becomes adelightful, seductive, witty conversationalist, and one night she and Briantalk for hours, until dawn, gradually drawing a web of seduction and passionaround themselves. Thisstory is yet another retooling of the legend of Cyrano de Bergerac, thepudding-faced dreamer who loved the great beauty Roxanne, and wrote herinspired love letters while stage-managing a courtship by his handsome butdoltish friend Christian. The story of Cyrano was first told in the 17thcentury, and was made into an enduring play byEdmond Rostandin 1897. It hasbeen remade countless times;Jose Ferrerwon an Oscar as Cyrano in 1950, SteveMartin updated the story in "Roxanne" (1987), andGerard Depardieugot an Oscar nomination for best actor for his version in 1990. Now here isJaneane Garofaloin a gender switch for the story, which plays just as well,because who cannot identify with it? Who does not like to believe that truelove exists between two hearts and minds, not between two faces, and that lovecan overleap such trifles as physical appearance? Advertisement "TheTruth About Cats & Dogs" is not simply another version of the oldstory, however. It includes a lot of humor that is generated by its specificsituation. Much of it does indeed have to do with cats and dogs (and with aconvincing demonstration of how to get a tortoise to stick its head out of itsshell). And then there is the matter of Noelle, the best friend. In UmaThurman's hands, she does not simply become a pawn, a false front for Abby.There is a poignance in her situation, because she loves Brian, too, in herway, and handles a difficult situation with unexpected sweetness. Ofcourse all movies like this toy a little with the odds. The movie is based uponthe presumption that Garofalo is not pretty, and of course she is. She hasnever been allowed to appear particularly appealing onscreen, however; after anapprenticeship on "Saturday Night Live" she broke onto the movies asthe Date From Hell in "Bye Bye Love" and Winona Ryder's best friend in“Reality Bites." In both roles she was blunt, abrasive and took nohostages -- although she was more likable in the second. Here we see an entireother side to her personality; a smartness, a penetrating wit, that takes thisold story and adds a wry spin to its combination of romance, sweetness andhope.