"Welcome to the Dollhouse" remembers with brutal andunforgiving accuracy the hell of junior high school. Many movies reconstructthose years as a sort of adolescent paradise; it's a shock, watching this film,to remember how cruel kids can be to one another, and how deeply the woundscut. Ican recall today with perfect accuracy the names and faces of11-year-olds whomade my life miserable. If I met them today, so many years later, would Iforgive and forget? Not a chance. I still hate them. Was I also cruel? Did Ihave my own victims? Strange, but I can’t remember... Advertisement "Welcometo the Dollhouse" starsHeather Matarazzoin a dead-on performance as DawnWiener, an unpopular seventh-grader whose glasses are wrong, whose hair iswrong, whose complexion is wrong, whose clothes are wrong, and who is as gawkyand geeky as it is humanly possible to be. The first time we see her, she'sperforming one of the most painful rituals in life: walking through the schoolcafeteria with a loaded tray, trying to choose a table. Her objective is to sitwith students as far up the school social scale as she dares, without beingrejected. “CanI sit here?” she asks, regarding an empty space. "Someone barfed therethird period," she's informed. BecauseDawn's family name is Wiener, she is inevitably known as "Wiener Dog"in school (I was "Eggbert"). She is also known as "Lesbo"and "Stupid," and when she asks a classmate why she hates her, shegets a refreshingly direct answer: "You're ugly." She isn't ugly,simply unformed in that in-between way, but she projects the vibes of apotential victim, and there are always going to be sadists whose antennae leadthem straight to their targets. Inevitably, her only friend in school is a boymuch smaller than she is, who is regularly beaten up and called a “faggot.” Dothe lesbo and faggot words indicate homophobia? Not necessarily. Kids that ageare fascinated by sex and terrified by their own ignorance, so they attackothers to assert self-confidence. Any difference at all, real or imaginary,makes someone a target. What qualifies as a difference? Anything you are that Iam not, or that I fear becoming. ButI'm making “Welcome to the Dollhouse” sound like some sort of grim sociologicalstudy, and in fact it's a funny, intensely entertaining film: intense, becauseit focuses so mercilessly on the behavior of its characters that we are forcedto confront both the comedy and the pain. Dawnlives in a split-level house with an older brother who is a nerd, and a youngersister who is a ballerina. Her parents claim they love all of their childrenequally. They are lying. Her brother Mark (Matthew Faber) is focused on gettinginto a good college, and everything he does is planned to enrich hisapplication. He starts a garage band, and recruits a popular student namedSteve (Eric Mabius) as his lead singer. Steve is a mature, handsome hunk, andDawn gets weak-kneed just looking at him. He's the kind of guy who will break awoman's heart just for the pleasure of hearing it snap, but of course Dawn’sheart is far beneath his attention. Nor is he much interested in the band (“Thatdoesn't sound much like `Satisfaction,”' he notes, after a clarinet passage byMark.) Dawn is very badly informed about sex, but willing to learn. She willessentially do anything for Steve, who can't be bothered; there is a well-writtenscene in which she has him alone at home and plies him with junk food. Advertisement Meanwhile,she's tormented by Brandon (Brendan Sexton Jr.), who makes her life miserable.Dawn is smart enough to sense or guess that boys Brandon's age often expressaffection through hostility, and she puts up with him because he's essentiallythe only game in school. In one of the movie's best scenes (which works onlybecause it is perfectly written, acted and understood), Brandon actually makesa date with her to “rape” her, and she turns up for it. Of course nothing resemblingrape takes place, although I'm not sure whether Brandon knows that. Sceneafter scene, “Welcome to the Dollhouse” piles on its details, re-creating theacute daily misery of being an unpopular adolescent and remembering, too, howresilient a girl like Dawn can be--how self-absorbed, how hopeful, howphilosophical, how enduring. Dawn'srevenge, we hope, is that someday she will be rich, famous and admired, whilethe snotty little cheerleaders who persecuted her will have been sucked intothe primeval slime of the miserable lives they deserve. “Welcometo the Dollhouse,” which won the grand prize at the1996 Sundance Film Festival,is a first film for its writer-director,Todd Solondz. He shows the kind ofunrelenting attention to detail that is the key to satire. It isn't the bigpicture that matters to a girl like Dawn, but the details: how she looks today inthe mirror, and how this dress looks, and what small hopeful signs might havebeen sighted, or imagined, on the far emotional horizon. If you can see thismovie without making a mental hit list of the kids who made your 11th year atorment, then you are kinder, or luckier, than me.