“Kazaam” is a textbook example of a filmed deal, in which adultsassemble a package that reflects their own interests and try to sell it tokids. How else to explain a children's movie where the villains are trying tosteal a bootleg recording so they can sell pirated copies of it? What do kidsknow, or care, about that? The movie starsShaquille O'Neal, the OrlandoMagic's superstar center, as Kazaam, a genie who is released from captivity inan old boom box and has to perform three wishes for a little kid (FrancisCapra). Right there you have a wonderful illustration of the movie's creativebankruptcy. Assigned to construct a starring vehicle for Shaq, the filmmakerslooked at him, saw a tall bald black man, and said, “Hey, he can be a genie!”At which point, somebody should have said, “OK, that's level one. Now let'stake it to level three.” Shaq has already proven he can act (in “Blue Chips,”the 1994 movie about college basketball). Here he shows he can be likable in achildren's movie. What he does not show is good judgment in his choice ofmaterial. This is a tired concept, written by the numbers. Kids old enough toknow about Shaq as a basketball star will be too old to enjoy the movie.Younger kids won't find much to engage them. And O'Neal shouldn't have used themovie to promote his own career as a rap artist; the soundtrack sounds lesslike music to entertain kids than like a trial run for a Shaq album. Advertisement Theplot: A wrecking ball destroys an old building, releasing a genie who isdiscovered by a kid named Max (Capra). He gets three wishes. The twist is, thegenie doesn't much like people, having made no friends in 5,000 years andhaving spent most of that time cooped up in bottles, lamps, radiators, etc. Theother twist is, the kid doesn't much trust people, because his father hasdisappeared. Thegenie, however, helps the kid find his father, only to find out the father isinvolved in an illegal music pirating operation. The father is not quite readyto go straight, but after some action sequences involving an evil gang, herealizes his future depends on living up to his son's expectations. Uncannyhow much this plot resembles “Aladdin and the King of Thieves,” a Disneymade-for-video production set for release next month. In that one, Aladdin hasnever known his father, but an oracle in an old lamp tells him where the fatheris to be found, and the blue genie helps him go there. His father is the Kingof the Thieves, it turns out, and may not be entirely ready to go straight. Butafter some action sequences involving the evil gang of thieves, the fatherrealizes that he must live up to his son's expectations, etc. Didanybody at Disney notice they were making the same movie twice, once asanimation, once as live action? Hard to say. The animated movie at least hasthe benefit of material that fits the genre, much better songs, a colorfulgraphic style, and another outing for the transmogrifying genie with the voiceofRobin Williams. “Kazaam,”however, by being live action, makes the bad guys too real for the fantasy towork, and the action sequence feels just like the end of every other formulamovie where the third act is replaced by fires and fights. Advertisement Thereare several moments in the movie when fantasy and reality collide. One comeswhen the genie astonishes the kid with a room full of candy, which cascades outof thin air. I was astonished, too. Astonished that this genie who had beenbottled up for most of the last 5,000 years would supply modern off-the- shelfcandy in its highly visible commercial wrappers: M&Ms, etc. Does thegenie's magic create the wrappers along with the candy, or does the genie buythe candy at wholesale before rematerializing it? There is also the awkwardnessof the relationship between the genie and the kid, caused by the need to makeKazaam not only a fantasy figure, but also a contemporary pal who can advisethe kid, steer him straight and get involved in the action at the end. Geniesare fun in the movies only if you define and limit their powers. Thatshould have been obvious, but the filmmakers didn't care to extend themselvesbeyond the obvious commercial possibilities of their first dim idea. As forShaquille O'Neal, given his own three wishes the next time, he should go for ascript, a director and an interesting character.