The prologue of “Walking and Talking” shows two preteen girlsintently studying The Joy of Sex, and we somehow suspect that when they growup, sex will be more of a joy to one than to the other. We are right. As thestory resumes, the characters, now thirty something, are still best friends.But then Laura's boyfriend proposes marriage, and her first thought is thatAmelia is not going to be thrilled at this news. Amelia(Catherine Keener) is a smart, good-looking brunet who for some reason is notlucky at love. She was going with a guy, and they are still friends, and sometimesthey try to reconstruct why they held back from a commitment, but they can'tquite remember. Maybe it has something to do with the way he borrows money fromher to pay for phone sex. Now she finds herself making small talk with theclerk at the video store, who eventually gets up the nerve to ask her out on adate--to a monster-movie fan convention. Advertisement Laura(Anne Heche) is more confident of her future. Her fiancé, Frank (Todd Field),designs costume jewelry, hates most of his work, but hopes to do better. He isalso curiously detached some of the time, and we begin to wonder about him,especially when he refuses to have the doctor look at a mole on his shoulder.Is he harboring a deadly disease? One of the gifts of “Walking and Talking” isthat it remains subtle and gentle about that possibility and others. Writtenand directed byNicole Holofcener, it is not a soap opera or a melodrama, andmany of our fears, about Frank and others, do not materialize. Onething I like about the film is the way it teasingly introduces elements that,in other films, would lead to big dramatic formulas, and then sidesteps them. Amelia,the central character, is not a desperate woman but simply a person ofreasonable intelligence who stands on the sidelines and watches the sweetheartson parade. What is she doing wrong? Nothing. She looks perfectly dateable tous. But when even the video clerk doesn't call her back, she begins to despair. Theclerk, whose name is Bill (Kevin Corrigan), is one of the treasures of “Walkingand Talking.” We have met people exactly like him. He doesn't talk fast, but hethinks before he talks and is not as much of a nerd as his tastes in movieswould imply. “You're really pretty,” he tells Amelia at one point, and thenadds: “You look like you really need to hear it.” He has a good reason for notcalling her back, which the movie handles wonderfully in a scene where Ameliafinally confronts him in the video store. Nobig events take place in “Walking and Talking.” Laura begins to plan herwedding. Amelia helps her. There is the obligatory crisis in which the engagedcouple have a big fight and stop talking to each other. There are sweet sceneswhere Amelia and her ex-boyfriend Andrew (Liev Schreiber) get together,wistfully, to remember that they were once in love. They also spend the daywith his father, who is in the early stages of Alzheimer's. And we see Laura atwork: She is a therapist who, on the eve of marriage, begins to panic aboutcommitment and to toy with the idea of an affair with one of her patients. Sheeven goes to see him in a play. He is a very bad actor. That is a relief. Howdid I feel at the end of “Walking and Talking”? The earth didn't shake, and Ididn't feel in the presence of great cinema, but I felt cheerful, as if I hadgone through some fraught times with good friends and we had emerged intact.And I found myself remembering Bill, the video clerk and Fangoria reader, andwondering how his book is coming along. He's writing the life of Colette. Advertisement