Frank Whaleyhas appeared in at least 20 movies, most with high profiles(“Pulp Fiction,” “Broken Arrow”), but he works quietly, insinuating himselfinto a scene instead of stealing it. Only in the last couple of years have Istarted to notice his work, as he moved up to leads playing a certain type: thehelpful, self-effacing, flattering new arrival in your life who wants to take itover. In “Swimming With Sharks” (1995), he was the new personal assistant to apowerful, obnoxious producer (Kevin Spacey). Now, in “Homage,” he plays Archie,a strange young man with a Ph.D. in math who applies for a summer job as anassistant on a New Mexico ranch. Imagine his excitement when he discovers thatKatherine, the ranch owner (Blythe Danner), is being visited by her daughterLucy (Sheryl Lee), who plays the lead in a trash TV show. Advertisement Theshow is named “Banyon's Band.” She plays a detective who's a hooker and workswith four street kids to solve crimes. Archie is a student of the series, andalso of the low-budget soft-core films Lucy has made, which he studies in theprivacy of his room. To the mother, Archie looks like a real find (“I'llbalance your soil”). Lucy is not so sure. As she hangs around the house, wearingsee-through blouses and getting drunk, Archie tries to insinuate himself. He'swriting a screenplay, he confides, that's just for her. Whaley is scary in thisrole. He delivers the kind of smooth, well-practiced compliments that markanger and envy--and lust, in this case. He eavesdrops a lot. He knows thatKatherine and Lucy do not have a happy relationship, that Lucy has been offdrugs four months but is drinking heavily, that Katherine is exhausted by theemotional demands of her troubled daughter. And Archie thinks, foolishly, thatsince the three of them are on a ranch miles from nowhere, maybe Lucy will wantto become his lover, or maybe Katherine. She's good-looking, and a true groupiewill settle for proximity if the real thing isn't reachable. Thecelebrity stalker plot could have generated tension and suspense, but thedirector,Ross Kagan Marks, and the writer,Mark Medoff, have decided to makethe movie unnecessarily artsy by starting with the climax and working back. Someoneis killed in the opening shots. We know the victim, and the killer, and so themovie becomes a flashback rather than a developing crisis. That can work, butit doesn't work here, and it denies Whaley the opportunity to conceal hissinister side, since the secret is out. There are two key supportingcharacters.Bruce Davison, always persuasive, is the hard-boozing local publicdefender who once loved Katherine himself, andDanny Nucciis theMexican-American jail guard. Archie, described in a news report as a “dementedEinstein,” practices his sarcasm on both of them: He's a verbal bully who wantsto find out how far he can push them, and does. Medoff, who wrote “Children ofa Lesser God,” adapted this screenplay from his play “The Homage That Follows.”I don't know if the play used the same flashback structure, but the theaterdepends more on performance than story, so it would have been less distractingthere. The play also would have been spared Marks' flash-cuts of coming events,which are a distraction. Intactat the center of the film are the performances: Whaley, creepily ingratiating;Lee, depressed and angry, and Danner, who in a way enjoys having a fan, sinceher daughter has so many. If this material had been untangled and told frombeginning to end, I think it would have added up to more. I have nothingagainst movies that begin at the end (consider “Citizen Kane”), but they needto earn that technique instead of simply using it to add a little art wherenone is needed.