“I've looked all up and down these roads for someone to love me,”says Eunice, the tortured murderess and pilgrim whose story is told in “ButterflyKiss.” Later she observes, “punishment is all I understand.” She is a gaunt,angry woman who stalks the roadsides of Britain, bursting into petrol stationsto ask the women behind the counter, “Are you Judith?” Then she kills them. Butshe doesn't kill Miriam, the slow-witted, hard-of-hearing clerk who sees Eunicesplashing herself with gasoline and walks out of the store and sits next to heron a concrete wall, and is kind to her. After they talk quietly, Eunice reachesout and kisses Miriam, who is from that moment completely dazzled by her power.“Mother, Auntie Kathy, a girl at swimming--and Eunice,” Miriam remembers. “Thoseare all the people who have kissed me.” The wounds of mental sickness,loneliness and need in “Butterfly Kiss” are so deep we can hardly watch. Thewomen begin a journey across England, Eunice killing and Miriam mostly cleaningup after her, as we begin to understand how these two deeply scarred,incomplete personalities have somehow found the perfect fit. The writer, FrankCottrell Boyce, and the director,Michael Winterbottom, show the relationshipforming but allow it to be a mystery: Whatever draws these women together,logic is not relevant to it. Advertisement Miriam(Saskia Reeves), her long-sleeved sweater buttoned over her clerk's smock,looks like an innocent, sentimental waif. Eunice (Amanda Plummer) lookshard-edged and worn by a lifetime of pain, and one of her small pleasures is tounbutton her blouse to show people that her gaunt body, covered with bruises,is wrapped in chains, her nipples pierced and linked. “She had 17 tattoos,”Miriam remembers, in a black-and-white video apparently made by the police atthe end of it all. “And they all had a meaning.” Do the chains and piercingshurt? Yes, they do, Eunice says. She wants to be hurt. She is doing penance forher sins. At times she is articulate, wondering why nobody else will punishher. Is she so insignificant that God will let her murder people, and not evennotice? The movie wisely never explains exactly who she is or where she comesfrom; this is not a case study but a sad parable. Whois Judith, the woman she seeks? Some reviews have drawn insights from thebiblical Judith, an avenger who beheaded an enemy of the Israelites. Has Eunicefound Judith in the Bible, or been loved by her in some real or imagined past?Eunice never lets go of a packet of papers, wrapped in plastic, that containall the “writings”--the documentation to support whatever madness her mind hasthrown up as a bulwark against the world. Her quest for Judith defines her. Thefirst day she meets Miriam, Eunice goes home with her, they make love, andMiriam is happy, one gathers, for the first time in her life. But the nextmorning the words “YOUR NOT JUDITH” are written in shaving cream on the mirror,and Eunice is gone. Miriamchases after her down the highway, and finds her shortly after she's murderedagain. Miriam helps conceal the body. “I never stopped looking in her for thegood,” she says in the videotape. Sometimes she seems dimly aware that theremay not be very much good. Eunice gets into an argument about dolphins with aman who gives them a lift. He thinks they may be superior to humans. “We mustbe superior to the dolphins,” Eunice says, “since we kill the dolphins.” Laterthere is a frightening sequence when the two women, having stolen a car, give alift to a homeless father and his daughter, and it seems that even the daughterwill not be spared by Eunice. Miriam acts, here, to save the girl--but herloyalty to Eunice never falters. Advertisement Theperformances have a gravity about them that is unusual in the movies. AmandaPlummer (Honey Bunny in “Pulp Fiction”) plays Eunice with a fierce, if twisted,intelligence: She talks to herself, her eyes roam restlessly, but she alwaysseems aware of exactly what she's done, and is even able to analyze her ownactions. Saskia Reeves (“Antonia and Jane”) plays Miriam with acceptance,warmth and sweetness, but little comprehension: She accepts all of Eunice'shorrifying crimes and scars and justifies them, driven by a complicated mix ofneed, sentimentality, incomprehension and sexual awakening. The movie's weakpoint is in the black-and-white videotaped testimony, when Reeves lets Miriamseem more aware, more of a performer, than elsewhere in the film. Thenames of the women are shortened in the movie, to the suggestive “Mi” and “Eu.”Can they be read as parts of a schizophrenic personality? Or is the story to betaken as it is told, as the record of a madwoman and a dim and trusting one whospend some bleak time together and are able to find a small measure ofhappiness? I don't know. The movie doesn't defend or glorify them; it simplyshows them. How you respond to “Butterfly Kiss” depends on what you bring toit, and how much empathy you are willing to extend to these sad and horrifyingwomen.