"Pete and Dolly's” restaurant is the kind of place wherethe regulars step behind the counter to help themselves to another cup ofcoffee, and in that gesture you sense it is their home. It is certainly homefor Dolly, for her fat son Victor, and for Delores, who has been a waitressthere for 15 years. It's home in the sense that their lives have been investedthere, and they have nothing better to turn to. You've been in places like this. You linger over a second cup ofcoffee and people-watch, trying to guess the secrets of the sad-eyed waitressand the drunk at the bar and the pizza cook who looks like he's serving asentence. You don't guess the true horror of the place, which is that there areno secrets, because everyone here knows all about everyone else, inside andout, top to bottom, and has for years. Advertisement Dolly(Shelley Winters) sits in an easy chair in the kitchen, complaining about herhealth and citing the vague sayings of her dead husband, Pete. Delores (DeborahHarry) had an affair with Pete years ago, but Pete and the affair were both someaningless that even Dolly can hardly stir herself to resentment. Leo (JoeGrifasi), who plants himself at the bar every night, is a nice-lookingmiddle-age guy who circles his drink protectively with his forearms while hiseyes follow Delores and he uneasily balances the hazards of a relationshipagainst the certainty of another drink. Delores pours Leo's drinks and pondersthe fact that there are exactly two men in the whole world she seems likely everto have sex with: Leo, and Victor, the mama's boy. And Victor makes pizza andsays nothing and his eyes dart back and forth like those of a wounded animallooking to make a break. Thissituation has continued for years when Dolly, who knows exactly what she'sdoing, introduces a new element. She hires another waitress, Callie (LivTyler), a tall, coltish college girl whose sexuality wakens all of thesleepers. Victor dreams of romance with her. Leo entertains possibilities.Delores considers her Dolly's “revenge” for the long-ago affair with Pete.Callie is more or less oblivious to their furiously humming thoughts; she hasher hands full learning to wait tables. JamesMangold's “Heavy” is basically about Victor.Pruitt TaylorVince plays himalmost without words and usually without expression: He has been slapped downemotionally so many times that like a whipped cur he slinks into his corner ofthe kitchen and makes pizza, his little eyes peering through the food shelf atCallie as she waits on customers. Delores sees this and makes her move, in ascene where sheer mechanical sexual need (not romance, love or lust) isexpressed as bluntly and sadly as in any movie I can remember. These people areso lonely. There is the night Leo gets too drunk to go home. Dolly and Victorbring him to their place, where he shares Victor's bedroom and the thinconsolations of pornography. There is the way Victor prepares his mother'sbreakfast every morning, under the steady hail of her running commentary. Theway that a vast change in his life hardly budges his routine. The way a mislaidphotograph becomes the emblem of an entire other life that Victor will neverlive. Odd,how the heart finds hope. When we are weighing the possibility of love withsomeone, we do not compare their reality with our reality. We compare theirreality with our need, so there is always a perfect fit. Is Victor foolish todream of Callie? Yes, but in the long run Callie will be lonely, too. In 15years, she may be just like Delores. And Delores will still be like Delores.And Leo will still be drinking, and plotting his next move. We pay for ourcoffee, and leave. We're not like that. Advertisement