“Feeling Minnesota” is about people you are happy to meet in themovies although they would make you acutely uncomfortable in life. Everyone inthe film is a lowlife of one description or another, and when a woman isinsulted by being told she should have the word “slut” tattooed on her, perhapsthis is no more than the truth: She makes love to her new husband's brother ather wedding, and later makes love to him again in a car, right after hismother's funeral (which does not reflect so well upon him, either, come tothink of it). Advertisement Tobe sure, she married her husband in the first place only as a punishment--forhim. Her name is Freddie (Cameron Diaz), and she is forced to marry Sam(Vincent D'Onofrio) by Red (Delroy Lindo), a drug kingpin who believes thatSam, his accountant, has stolen money from him. To find out why it would be apunishment to marry a woman played by Cameron Diaz, you will have to see themovie. Aflashback establishes that Sam and his brother Jjaks (Keanu Reeves) have beenfighting since childhood. At the wedding, they engage in a vicious game ofrock-scissors-paper. Soon Sam is boozing heavily and Jjaks is off to thebathroom for a torrid session with Freddie. And not long after that, Jjaks andFreddie go on the lam, which makes Sam and Red intensely unhappy. Freddie talksabout the bliss to be found in Las Vegas, “where you get all you can eat for $4and all of the towels smell like Downy fabric softener.” What more could youask? If these characters were played at the level where they exist, “FeelingMinnesota” would be a docudrama of despair, depravity and bad hygiene. Rememberthat documentary “Brother's Keeper,” about the illiterate brothers who bunkedtogether in the same shack and didn't bathe for months and were mighty fond oftheir animals? That's the milieu Jjaks and Sam come from, really. But Hollywoodcleans them up real nice, and casts them with Reeves and D'Onofrio, and assumesthat a world-class beauty like Diaz would consider it a step up to drop Sam forJjaks, “who likes to spend all of his free time in prison.” And you know what?That's exactly how it works. By taking characters from the bottom of the barreland casting them with beautiful people, Hollywood is able to create that agelessalchemy in which we equate physical beauty with personal worth, and so ofcourse we want Freddie to dump Sam (who looks like an incipientOrson Welles)for Jjaks (who has a nice smile). Themovie was written and directed bySteven Baigelman, who must have gotten hischaracters all out of books and other movies, since I think it unlikely hecould travel from their milieu to a movie contract in one lifetime. What hedoes with them is kind of nice. He creates a whimsical, grungy reality in whichwhenever the steamy love affair threatens to get boring, it is interrupted byan action scene. (I can remember back when action scenes got boring and wereinterrupted by steamy love scenes, but then that was back in the days whenaudiences liked sex more than guns.) Cameron Diaz is the discovery here. Ifirst became aware of her in “The Mask,” in which she was a sex siren in a gownthat looked spray-painted onto her almost cartoonishly perfect curves. Now,after seeing her in movies like “Last Supper” and “She's the One,” and in thislead role in “Feeling Minnesota,” I realize she has range and comic ability andis not only a sex bomb; she looks so warmly down-to-earth in these other films,indeed, that instead of praising a sex bomb for being able to play real, weshould, I suppose, congratulate a real woman on being able to create the sirenin “The Mask.” D'Onofrio is, as always, a substantial screen presence; he seemsto block more of the sun than most actors, and has to be dealt with. You can'tsimply dismiss him with plot details. Reeves is very likable, and this film,coming after the enchanting “A Walk in the Clouds,” establishes him as one ofthe most gifted romantic leads of his generation. Sothese people, with their talent and beauty, take dog patch material and redeemit. It's intriguing that young filmmakers are so fascinated by the sleazieraspects of life; maybe they think this material lends them an authenticity theyotherwise lack. The tension between the slime fest milieu and the charm of theperformances is maybe what makes “Feeling Minnesota” work; in its own way, thisis as much a fantasy as “James and the Giant Peach.”