If we identify strongly with the characters in some movies, thenit is no mystery that “Casablanca” is one of the most popular films ever made.It is about a man and a woman who are in love, and who sacrifice love for ahigher purpose. This is immensely appealing; the viewer is not only able toimagine winning the love ofHumphrey BogartorIngrid Bergman, but unselfishlyrenouncing it, as a contribution to the great cause of defeating the Nazis. No one making “Casablanca” thought they were making a greatmovie. It was simply another Warner Bros. release. It was an “A list” picture,to be sure (Bogart, Bergman and Paul Henreid were stars, and no better cast ofsupporting actors could have been assembled on the Warners lot than PeterLorre, Sidney Greenstreet,Claude Rainsand Dooley Wilson). But it was made ona tight budget and released with small expectations. Everyone involved in thefilm had been, and would be, in dozens of other films made under similarcircumstances, and the greatness of “Casablanca” was largely the result ofhappy chance. Advertisement Thescreenplay was adapted from a play of no great consequence; memoirs tell ofscraps of dialogue jotted down and rushed over to the set. What must havehelped is that the characters were firmly established in the minds of thewriters, and they were characters so close to the screen personas of the actorsthat it was hard to write dialogue in the wrong tone. HumphreyBogart played strong heroic leads in his career, but he was usually better asthe disappointed, wounded, resentful hero. Remember him in “The Treasure of theSierra Madre,” convinced the others were plotting to steal his gold. In “Casablanca,”he plays Rick Blaine, the hard-drinking American running a nightclub inCasablanca when Morocco was a crossroads for spies, traitors, Nazis and theFrench Resistance. Theopening scenes dance with comedy; the dialogue combines the cynical with theweary; wisecracks with epigrams. We see that Rick moves easily in a corruptworld. “What is your nationality?” the German Strasser asks him, and hereplies, “I'm a drunkard.” His personal code: “I stick my neck out for nobody.” Then“of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world, she walks into mine.”It is Ilsa Lund (Bergman), the woman Rick loved years earlier in Paris. Underthe shadow of the German occupation, he arranged their escape, and believes sheabandoned him--left him waiting in the rain at a train station with theirtickets to freedom. Now she is with Victor Laszlo (Henreid), a legendary heroof the French Resistance. Allthis is handled with great economy in a handful of shots that still, after manyviewings, have the power to move me emotionally as few scenes ever have. The bar'spiano player, Sam (Wilson), a friend of theirs in Paris, is startled to seeher. She asks him to play the song that she and Rick made their own, “As TimeGoes By.” He is reluctant, but he does, and Rick comes striding angrily out ofthe back room (“I thought I told you never to play that song!”). Then he seesIlsa, a dramatic musical chord marks their closeups, and the scene plays out inresentment, regret and the memory of a love that was real. (This scene is notas strong on a first viewing as on subsequent viewings, because the first timeyou see the movie you don't yet know the story of Rick and Ilsa in Paris;indeed, the more you see it the more the whole film gains resonance.) Advertisement Theplot, a trifle to hang the emotions on, involves letters of passage that willallow two people to leave Casablanca for Portugal and freedom. Rick obtainedthe letters from the wheedling little black-marketeer Ugarte (Peter Lorre). Thesudden reappearance of Ilsa reopens all of his old wounds, and breaks hiscarefully cultivated veneer of neutrality and indifference. When he hears herstory, he realizes she has always loved him. But now she is with Laszlo. Rickwants to use the letters to escape with Ilsa, but then, in a sustained sequencethat combines suspense, romance and comedy as they have rarely been broughttogether on the screen, he contrives a situation in which Ilsa and Laszloescape together, while he and his friend the police chief (Claude Rains) getaway with murder. (“Round up the usual suspects.”) Whatis intriguing is that none of the major characters is bad. Some are cynical,some lie, some kill, but all are redeemed. If you think it was easy for Rick torenounce his love for Ilsa--to place a higher value on Laszlo's fight againstNazism--remember Forster's famous comment, “If I were forced to choose betweenmy country and my friend, I hope I would be brave enough to choose my friend.” Froma modern perspective, the film reveals interesting assumptions. Ilsa Lund'srole is basically that of a lover and helpmate to a great man; the movie's realquestion is, which great man should she be sleeping with? There is actually noreason why Laszlo cannot get on the plane alone, leaving Ilsa in Casablancawith Rick, and indeed that is one of the endings that was briefly considered.But that would be all wrong; the “happy” ending would be tarnished byself-interest, while the ending we have allows Rick to be larger, to approachnobility (“it doesn't take much to see that the problems of three little peopledon't amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world”). And it allows us,vicariously experiencing all of these things in the theater, to warm in theglow of his heroism. Inher closeups during this scene, Bergman's face reflects confusing emotions. Andwell she might have been confused, since neither she nor anyone else on thefilm knew for sure until the final day who would get on the plane. Bergmanplayed the whole movie without knowing how it would end, and this had thesubtle effect of making all of her scenes more emotionally convincing; shecould not tilt in the direction she knew the wind was blowing. Stylistically,the film is not so much brilliant as absolutely sound, rock-solid in its use ofHollywood studio craftsmanship. The director, Michael Curtiz, and the writers(Julius J. Epstein, Philip G. Epstein andHoward Koch) all won Oscars. One oftheir key contributions was to show us that Rick, Ilsa and the others lived ina complex time and place. The richness of the supporting characters(Greenstreet as the corrupt club owner, Lorre as the sniveling cheat, Rains asthe subtly homosexual police chief and minor characters like the young girl whowill do anything to help her husband) set the moral stage for the decisions ofthe major characters. When this plot was remade in 1990 as “Havana,” Hollywoodpractices required all the big scenes to feature the big stars (Robert RedfordandLena Olin) and the film suffered as a result; out of context, they weremore lovers than heroes. Advertisement Seeingthe film over and over again, year after year, I find it never growsover-familiar. It plays like a favorite musical album; the more I know it, themore I like it. The black-and-white cinematography has not aged as color would.The dialogue is so spare and cynical it has not grown old-fashioned. Much ofthe emotional effect of “Casablanca” is achieved by indirection; as we leavethe theater, we are absolutely convinced that the only thing keeping the worldfrom going crazy is that the problems of three little people do after allamount to more than a hill of beans.