“The First Wives Club” is a creepy revenge comedy about threewomen who are dumped by their husbands. They don't get mad, they get even.Well, they get mad, too. The film opens at college in 1969, when four newgraduates vow eternal friendship. They don't stay in touch, however, and ittakes the suicide of one to bring the other three together at her funeral. Theyare all now in their 40s. There is Brenda (Bette Midler), who helped herhusband build up a chain of electronics stores, only to be dumped for a cuteyoung thing. Elise (Goldie Hawn), an actress, has fought age to a standstillwith plastic surgery but moans, “In Hollywood, women have only three ages:babe, district attorney and `Driving Miss Daisy.”' And Annie (Diane Keaton)deludes herself that her husband, who runs an ad agency, is going to come backafter their “trial separation.” The story, based on a novel by OliviaGoldsmith, follows them as they grow increasingly disenchanted with men (thatdoesn't take much), and band together to pull assorted scams and blackmails inorder to get what is rightfully theirs, which in each case means her husband'sbusiness. Advertisement Onceyou have this structure figured out, there's not much more to think about inthe movie, which alternates heartfelt talks with slapstick and sitcom situations.You need a short attention span in order to be touched by the true confessionsscenes and still be able to believe a sequence in which the three heroinesbreak into the penthouse office of one husband, and escape detection bycrawling onto a window washer's platform, which hurtles toward the earth. Ofthe three main characters, Elise, the desperate actress played by Goldie Hawn,is the most fun. She has had some success in the movies, fears it is mostlybehind her, and has a husband (Victor Garber) who got a free ride to the top asa “producer” because he was married to her. Now he has a very young new bimbo,and wants half of their assets and monthly alimony. What'sbest about the Hawn character is the forthright way the dialogue deals with herdilemma. The first time we see her, she's begging her plastic surgeon for morecollagen in her lips: “I wantTina Turner! Jagger! Fill 'em up!” Her firstpublic appearance is at the funeral, wearing lips that look like they belong inneon above Times Square. She denies to her friends that she's had any plasticsurgery at all, but finally admits, “I have been freshened up a little bit.”She drinks too much, wants sympathy from bartenders, and moans, “Sean Connery's300 years old and he's still a stud.” Annie, the Keaton character, is stillbeing taken advantage of by her husband (Stephen Collins). He even has sex withher immediately before asking for a divorce (“it was sort of a good-bye kiss”).Her daughter (Jennifer Dundas) announces early in the film that she's alesbian, which sets up an unlikely and forced visit by the three women to alesbian bar. It's an example of the film's expediency and superficiality thatthe daughter, searching for a quick put-down for her dad, later uses theannouncement of her lesbianism as a glib exit line. Brenda,the Midler character, was some of the brains and a lot of the effort behind thesuccess of the chain of stores owned by her husband (Dan Hedaya), but “now thathe's a celebrity” (because he appears in his own TV ads) she's been dumped,too. She functions as the most together of the three friends, the planner andsteadying influence. Themovie is heavy on incident but light on plot; the Diane Keaton character, whonarrates, uses voice-over bridges to get us from one set-up to another. Andthen there's a very protracted happy ending that goes on and on. First there'sa party where every single possible loose end is sewn up (even those we didn'tcare about), and then the three heroines sing “You Don't Own Me,” in a sequencethat owes more to self-congratulation than entertainment. There is undoubtedlya movie to be made about this material--a different movie. Advertisement