The rewards of selling drugs are so small compared with therisks you run and the price you pay. That is the remorseless lesson of “SweetNothing,” which tells the story of a Wall Street worker who wants a little moremoney for his family, and ends up broke, addicted, sought by the police, and withouthis family. Oneof the key images in the early part of the movie shows him smoking crack forthe first time and saying, “So that's what I was missing.” One of the keyimages from the closing scenes shows him huddled against a wall, sucking on apiece of candy, waiting for drugs while watching the clock advance oneexcruciating second at a time. Here is a man who had no idea at all how much hecould be missing. Advertisement Thefilm is about Angel (Michael Imperioli), who in the opening scenes celebratesthe birth of his second child. He visits his wife Monika (Mira Sorvino) in thehospital, and then goes out to celebrate. His friend Raymond (Paul Calderon)offers him a hit from a cocaine pipe, and he likes it. “Give me another,” hesays, perhaps unaware of George Carlin's famous line, “What does cocaine makeyou feel like? It makes you feel like having some more cocaine.” Raymond tellshim the truth: “People sell their front doors for this stuff.” Angel doesn'tcare, because already he is ready to sell his own front door. Before long he'sdoing some dealing, finding customers at work, talking about how he can clear$1,000 a week. One night he puts a pearl necklace around Monika's neck, and sheglows with delight. She allows herself to think that maybe this thing willwork--that Angel can make extra money, the family can benefit, and somehownobody will get hurt. One characteristic of all addictions is that they createa state of compulsive self-monitoring. The user is constantly asking, How do Ifeel? Have I had enough? Too much? Can I get more? Am I in trouble? Althoughusing the drug or drink of choice seems to create a state of benevolence andrelaxation, in fact it builds a wall that closes out other people. When a useris high he smiles at you, but it's because of how he feels about himself, notbecause of how he feels about you. “SweetNothing” understands this process.Gary Winick, who directed, andLee Drysdale,who wrote the screenplay, subtly mark out the stages in the progress of Angel'saddiction. He defends himself by claiming the best motives (he is dealing drugsto help his family), although his real motive is to get high, and the familyobviously suffers. They move to a shabby apartment (“just for a little while”).There is no food in the house. Monika cannot cope by herself. Eventually eventhe small son knows that the man on the corner is a drug dealer. One night,desperate for drugs, Angel dumps his kids at his in-laws' house, terrifyingeveryone in the process. Norare drugs kind to Raymond, the friend. He seemed better able to handle themthan Angel. Perhaps he was wise enough to balance his business against hisaddiction. But eventually the cops are looking for him, and someone is dead,and everything is coming to pieces. Angel's life in the closing stages of hisaddiction can be symbolized by that guy on the old TV shows who tried to keep alot of plates spinning on the tops of poles, all at once. MichaelImperioli has been in some two dozen movies (including “Last Man Standing”),often playing a tough kid, an outsider, troubled, complex. In “Sweet Nothing”he shows a new maturity and command in his acting, maybe because he is given akey role that runs all the way through. He doesn't fall for the actor'stemptation of making too many emotional choices; he understands that many ofAngel's problems are very simple: He wants to use more drugs than he canafford. For Mira Sorvino, this is a new kind of role, and she is very good init, as a woman who wants to hold her marriage and family together, who iswilling to give her husband the benefit of the doubt, who believes more thanshe should, stays longer than she should, and finally finds the strength to actfor herself. Winickuses an interesting narrative device--the story is told in a journal being keptby Angel--and the journal segments suggest Angel has arrived at some sort ofend to his journey. Wisely, the movie doesn't spell out the details. We canarrive at our own conclusions. “If I were still using,” addicts say, “I wouldbe dead.” There is a logical paradox there, but the message is clear enough. Advertisement