Paris is a city for lovers not because you can love better init, but because you can walk and talk better in it. Lesser cities with fewerresources require their lovers to spend too much time loving, which tires andbores them, while in Paris the whole city is foreplay. It cannot be acoincidence that although we have the word “meeting” in English, we also borrowthe French word “rendezvous.” A rendezvous is to a meeting as a rose is to apostage stamp of a rose. EricRohmer, who is now in his 70s, has dedicated most of his career to making filmsabout men and women talking about love: the flirtations, the suggestions, theanalysis, the philosophy, the quirks, the heartfelt outpourings, the startlingrevelations. Advertisement “Rendezvousin Paris,” which tells three stories in one film, is one of the best of hisworks. In it there are no sex scenes, and you could even make the case thatthere are no lovers--or two, at the most. Paris is such an inspiration forthese characters that they play lovers even when their hearts aren't in it.Ideally, you should have your true love at your side for walking through theparks, sitting on benches, and having deep conversations. But if that is notpossible, then you should annex whomever is available, and pretend. Inthe first story, a girl (Clara Bellar) is told her boyfriend (Antoine Basler)is cheating on her--seeing another girl at times when he claims he is “busy.”Walking through the market, she is approached by a stranger (Mathias Megard)who has become instantly attracted to her, but is on his way to the dentist.Can they meet later? Yes, she says--at the cafe where she's been told herboyfriend is having his secret rendezvous. The outcome of this story, which Iwill not reveal, is typical Rohmer in that she's wrong about both men--andwrong in two different ways about the second. Inthe second story, a woman (Aurore Rauscher) leads her would-be suitor (SergeRenko) on a series of daily walks through Paris, while they talk and talk aboutlove. She is in the process of breaking up with her former lover, and tellsthis new candidate with brutal frankness: “I used to love him more than I doyou now, but I don't love him anymore.” Finally they have almost talkedthemselves into a position where they have to make love or stop talking. Thenshe discovers that her former lover has a new woman in his life. This makes herown new lover unnecessary, since only if the old lover still cared about herwould he (and she) care about her new lover. The more you think about thislogic the more French it becomes. Advertisement Inthe third story, an artist (Michael Kraft) has a visitor (Veronika Johansson)who bores him, so he suggests a visit to the nearby Picasso museum. At themuseum, he notices a woman (Benedicte Loyen) looking at a painting. He explainsthe painting to his own date, loudly enough so the other woman can hear him,which is the point. (Someone once said that all female speech is explanationand all male speech is advertisement.) He succeeds in ridding himself of the firstwoman and catches up with the other woman in the street, only to discover sheis on her honeymoon. But she asks to be shown his paintings, and in his studiotheir conversation takes a painfully analytical turn. In an exquisite twist, heis later stood up by the first woman. Didyou spot the two real lovers? They are the woman from the first story and theman she is told is cheating on her. Of all the dialogue in this film, they havethe least. Is that the point? That talk is seduction, and becomes redundantafter it serves its purpose? I don't think Rohmer is that simple. I think hebelieves that love is love and that flirtatious conversation is an entirelyseparate pleasure, not to be confused with anything else. Whatthe people in “Rendezvous in Paris” are really saying, underneath all of theirwords, is: “I am not available. You are not available. But let us play at beingavailable because it is such a joy to use these words and tease with thesepossibilities, and so much fun to be actors playing lovers, since Parisprovides the perfect set for our performance.” Rohmer splendidly illustratesthe theory that Parisians possess two means of sexual intercourse, of which theprimary one is the power of speech.