The old man knows he is dying of cancer. In a bar, he tells astranger he has money to spend on a “really good time,” but doesn't know how tospend it. Thestranger takes him out on the town, to gambling parlors, dance halls and thered light district, and finally to a bar where the piano player calls forrequests and the old man, still wearing his overcoat and hat, asks for"Life Is Short--Fall in Love, Dear Maiden." "Oh,yeah, one of those old '20s songs," the piano man says, but he plays it,and then the old man starts to sing. His voice is soft and he scarcely moveshis lips, but the bar falls silent, the party girls and the drunken salary mendrawn for a moment into a reverie about the shortness of their own lives. Advertisement Thismoment comes near the center point of "Ikiru," Akira Kurosawa's 1952film about a bureaucrat who works for 30 years at Tokyo City Hall and neveraccomplishes anything. Mr. Watanabe has become the chief of his section, andsits with a pile of papers on either side of his desk, in front of shelvesfilled with countless more documents. Down a long table on either side of him,his assistants shuffle these papers back and forth. Nothing is ever decided.His job is to deal with citizen complaints, but his real job is to take a smallrubber stamp and press it against each one of the documents, to show that hehas handled it. Theopening shot of the film is an X-ray of Watanabe's chest. "He has gastriccancer, but doesn't yet know it," says a narrator. "He just driftsthrough life. In fact, he's barely alive." TheX-ray fades into his face--into the sad, tired, utterly common face of theactorTakashi Shimura, who in 11 films by Kurosawa and many by others, playedan everyman who embodied his characters by not seeming to embody anything atall. Thereis a frightening scene in his doctor's office, where another patient chattersmindlessly; he is a messenger of doom, describing Watanabe's precise symptomsand attributing them to stomach cancer. "If they say you can eat anythingyou want," he says, "that means you have less than a year." Whenthe doctor uses the very words that were predicted, the old bureaucrat turnsaway from the room, so that only the camera can see him, and he looks utterlyforlorn. Kurosawaopens his story with a deliberate, low-key pacing, although at the end there israge against the dying of the light. In a scene that never fails to shake me,Watanabe goes home and cries himself to sleep under his blanket, while thecamera pans up to a commendation he was awarded after 25 years at his post. Itis not so bad that he must die. What is worse is that he has never lived."I just can't die -- I don't know what I've been living for all theseyears," he says to the stranger in the bar. He never drinks, but now he isdrinking: "This expensive saki is a protest against my life up tonow." Advertisement Hisleave of absence at the office continues, day after day. Finally a young womanwho wants to resign tracks him down to get his stamp on her papers. Heasks her to spend the day with him, and they go to pachinko parlors and themovies. She tells him her nicknames for everyone in the office. His nickname is"the Mummy." She is afraid she has offended him, but no: "Ibecame a mummy for the sake of my son, but he doesn't appreciate me." Sheencourages him to go see his son. But when he tries to tell him about hisillness, the son cuts him off -- insists on getting the property due him beforethe old man squanders it on women. Later, on a final outing with the youngwoman, he tells her about a time when he was young and thought he was drowning.He says, "My son's far away somewhere -- just as my parents were far awaywhen I was drowning." Theword "Ikiru" has been translated as "To Live," and at somepoint on his long descent into despair, Mr. Watanabe determines to accomplishat least one worthwhile thing before he dies. He arrives at this decision in arestaurant, talking to the young woman while in a room behind them there is acelebration going on. As he leaves, girls in the other room sing "HappyBirthday" to a friend -- but in a way they sing for Watanabe's rebirth. Agroup of women have been shuttled from one office to another, protestingagainst a pool of stagnant water in their neighborhood. Watanabe becomes amadman, personally escorting the case from one bureaucrat to another,determined to see that a children's park is built on the wasteland before hedies. It all leads up to Watanabe's final triumph, seen in one of the greatestclosing shots in the cinema. Thescenes of his efforts do not come in chronological order, but as flashbacksfrom his funeral service. Watanabe's family and associates gather to rememberhim, drinking too much and finally talking too much, trying to unravel themystery of his death and the behavior that led up to it. And here we see thereal heart of the movie, in the way one man's effort to do the right thing caninspire, or confuse, or anger, or frustrate, those who see it only from theoutside, through the lens of their own unexamined lives. Advertisement Wewho have followed Watanabe on his last journey are now brought forcibly back tothe land of the living, to cynicism and gossip. Mentally, we urge the survivorsto think differently, to arrive at our conclusions. And that is how Kurosawaachieves his final effect: He makes us not witnesses to Watanabe's decision,but evangelists for it. I think this is one of the few movies that mightactually be able to inspire someone to lead their life a little differently. Kurosawamade it in 1952, when he was 42 (and Shimura was only 47). It came right after"Rashomon" (1951) and "The Idiot" (1952), which alsostarred Shimura. Ahead was his popular classic "The Seven Samurai"(1954) and other samurai films like "The Hidden Fortress" (1960), thefilm that inspired the characters R2D2 and C3PO in "Star Wars." Thefilm was not released internationally until 1960, maybe because it was thought"too Japanese," but in fact it is universal. Isaw "Ikiru" first in 1960 or 1961. I went to the movie because it wasplaying in a campus film series and only cost a quarter. I sat enveloped in thestory of Watanabe for 2 1/2 hours, and wrote about it in a class where theessay topic was Socrates' statement, "the unexamined life is not worthliving."' Over the years I have seen "Ikiru" every five years orso, and each time it has moved me, and made me think. And the older I get, theless Watanabe seems like a pathetic old man, and the more he seems like everyone of us.