“That Thing You Do!” is the first film written and directed byTom Hanks, and not surprisingly it is as sunny and guileless as many of thecharacters he's played: The movie may be inconsequential, but in some waysthat's a strength. Without hauling in a lot of deep meanings, it remembers withgreat warmth a time and a place. Thetime: the summer of 1964. The place: Erie, Pa., where life for young peoplecenters on music, on records, on the radio, and especially on the incrediblephenomenon of the Beatles. It's the kind of world where the owner of anappliance store can say, “I don't think I want to live in a country where youhave to work on Sunday” without suspecting he will ever have to. Advertisement Theowner's son, named Guy (Tom EverettScott), lurks in the store after hours toplay records loudly on the turntables and accompany them on the drums. Hisfriends have started a band, and when the drummer breaks an arm, Guy joins theband just before it gets its big break--a gig at a college talent show thatleads to a gig at a pizza parlor. By picking up the tempo, Guy changes theband's sound until they resemble the Beatles a little, as so many bands didthen. Theyhave one song, written by their lead vocalist, Jimmy (Johnathon Schaech). It'scalled “That Thing You Do!,” and it's a good thing it's a good song (written byAdam Schlesinger) because boy, are we familiar with it by the time the movie isover. As they get better as a band, the song gets better, too, and soon they'rebeing signed to tour Pennsylvania by a so-called manager who pulls up outsidethe store in his camper. “ThatThing You Do!” is a rags-to-riches-to-oblivion story, the saga of the kind ofband known in the industry as one-hit wonders. Appropriately enough, the nameof the band is the Wonders, although it starts out as the One-ders and the namegets changed only because so many fans insist on pronouncing it “oh-need-ers.”The band really picks up steam when an executive from Play-Tone records (TomHanks) hears them, signs them to a state fair tour, and pilots them towardHollywood. Meanwhile, their first record is chasing the Rolling Stones up theBillboard charts, and in Hollywood they get their big break, a spot on a TVshowcase. Meanwhile,maybe inevitably, the band members are developing problems with one another.Jimmy brings along his girlfriend (Liv Tyler) but treats her coldly. When theband appears on TV, the words “Careful, girls--he's engaged!” appear beneathhis shot, and that enrages him. (“Jimmy,” she says, “I've wasted thousands andthousands of kisses on you.”) One band member leaves for Marine duty, anotherruns off to Vegas to get married, and the veteran recording executive acceptsthis as a fact of life: Maybe they were only meant to have one hit. There areother bands. Advertisement Myfavorite scenes take place in Hollywood as the band is breaking up and Guy hastime on his hands. He meets his longtime idol, the jazz great Del Paxton (BillCobbs), gets to join him in a session, and learns from him a basic lesson: “Bandscome and go.” And he meets a friendly waitress (Rita Wilson) who subtly offersherself, and just as subtly takes back the offer. Inthe annals of pop music, 1964 was a fairly innocent time. Bands broke upbecause of girlfriend problems, not drugs and murders. A guy could still run arecord company out of his briefcase, and get air time by personal visits withdisc jockeys. It wasn't all organized, it wasn't all big time, and if it wasall hype, well, it's always been all hype.