“The Long Kiss Goodnight” is a cinematic comic book, a series ofbiff!-BAM!-whack! action episodes, all more or less impossible, surrounding thelarger-than-life characters. I liked it in the same way I might like an arcadegame: It holds your attention until you run out of quarters, and then youwander away without giving it another thought. GeenaDavis, a good sport if ever there was one, stars as a woman who thinks she's asoccer mom named Samantha when actually she's a trained government assassinnamed Charly. She has forgotten her real identity because of “what the doctorscall focal retrograde amnesia.” She leads a quiet life in a small town, evenplaying Mrs. Santa in the Christmas parade, until a TV broadcast and a violentcar wreck begin to bring back her past. Advertisement Certainlyit's a clue to her past life when she kills a deer by breaking its neck withher bare hands. And how about the kitchen scene when Samantha chops a carrot asif she'd never seen a knife before, and suddenly Charly takes over like a humanVeg-O-Matic, pulverizing vegetables and then for her encore throwing a tomatoin the air and skewering it to the wall with a deftly-thrown knife. “Chefs dothat,” she explains to her stunned daughter and boyfriend. Shehires a fly-by-night private eye (Samuel L. Jackson) to track down her past,and he turns up clues that lead to a full-scale war with the U.S. intelligenceestablishment. Without giving away too much of the plot (as if, heh, heh, therewas much of a plot), I'll say that bad guys think she was dead and now want tokill her, and she has to defend herself while having flashbacks to violentepisodes in her past life. Themovie is put together like a Top 40 radio station, in which you get 10 minutesof hits and then have to listen to somebody talking for 90 seconds. Thedialogue serves only to separate and set up the action scenes. Sooner or laterthey're actually going to advertise one of these movies with the line, “lesstalk and more action!” It's the kind of film where when the mother undergoes apersonality change and decides she does love her little daughter after all, sheshouts that information--”I LOVE HER!”--over the noise of battle. Leave outthose three words, and the movie's central human dilemma would be misplaced. GeenaDavis has gone on the talk shows to explain that she personally performed all,or most, or many, of her stunts in the movie. For example, that's really herbeing blown out of a window and flying through the air. My message is: Geena,give yourself a break. I looked really closely as you were blown out thewindow, and it all happened so fast that I couldn't even be sure it was you--sowhy not let a stunt woman do it? That's what they're paid for. Theexplosion scene allowed me to enjoy one more example of the latest way in whichaction movies suspend the laws of physics. Davis and Jackson actually outrun aflaming fireball that chases them down a corridor. I've seen that done in a lotof movies lately, and I've got news for them: It can't be done. (It also cannotbe done on a motorcycle, althoughKeanu Reevesdoes it in “Chain Reaction,” orin the Chunnel, althoughTom Cruisedoes it in “Mission: Impossible.”) Themovie is Hitchcockian in its use of famous locations. The climax involves atruck bomb that is supposed to blow up the bridge at Niagara Falls, and at onepoint Samantha/Charly actually uses a dead body as a counterweight to lift herinto the sky so she can shoot it out with a helicopter under the “Welcome toCanada” arch. Yep. And wouldn't you know that when the truck explodes, Jacksonand Davis get to outrun another fireball, this time in a car, although thatcan't be done, either. Advertisement