“Did he train you? Did he rehearse you? Didhe tell you what to do and what to say?”This cry from a wounded heart comes at the end of AlfredHitchcock's “Vertigo,” and by the time it comes we are completely in sympathy.A man has fallen in love with a woman who does not exist, and now he cries outharshly against the real woman who impersonated her. But there is so much moreto it than that. The real woman has fallen in love with him. In tricking him,she tricked herself. And the man, by preferring his dream to the woman standingbefore him, has lost both. Advertisement Then there is another level, beneath all of the others. AlfredHitchcock was known as the most controlling of directors, particularly when itcame to women. The female characters in his films reflected the same qualitiesover and over again: They were blond. They were icy and remote. They wereimprisoned in costumes that subtly combined fashion with fetishism. Theymesmerized the men, who often had physical or psychological handicaps. Sooneror later, every Hitchcock woman was humiliated. “Vertigo” (1958), which is one of the two or three best filmsHitchcock ever made, is the most confessional, dealing directly with the themesthat controlled his art. It is *about* how Hitchcock used, feared and tried tocontrol women. He is represented by Scottie (James Stewart), a man withphysical and mental weaknesses (back problems, fear of heights), who fallsobsessively in love with the image of a woman--and not any woman, but thequintessential Hitchcock woman. When he cannot have her, he finds another womanand tries to mold her, dress her, train her, change her makeup and her hair,until she looks like the woman he desires. He cares nothing about the clay heis shaping; he will gladly sacrifice her on the altar of his dreams. But of course the woman he is shaping and the woman he desiresare the same person. Her name is Judy (Kim Novak), and she was hired to playthe dream woman, “Madeleine,” as part of a murder plot that Scottie does noteven begin to suspect. When he finds out he was tricked, his rage isuncontrollable. He screams out the words: “Did he train you? . . .” Eachsyllable is a knife in his heart, as he spells out that another man shaped thewoman that Scottie thought to shape for himself. The other man has taken notmerely Scottie's woman, but Scottie's dream. That creates a moral paradox at the center of “Vertigo.” Theother man (Gavin, played by Tom Helmore) has after all only done to this womanwhat Scottie also wanted to do. And while the process was happening, the realwoman, Judy, transferred her allegiance from Gavin to Scottie, and by the endwas not playing her role for money, but as a sacrifice for love. All of these emotional threads come together in the greatestsingle shot in all of Hitchcock. Scottie, a former San Francisco policedetective hired by Gavin to follow “Madeleine,” has become obsessed with her.Then it appears Madeleine has died. By chance, Scottie encounters Judy, wholooks uncannily like Madeleine, but appears to be a more carnal, less polishedversion. Of course he does not realize she is exactly the same woman. He asksher out and Judy unwisely accepts. During their strange, stilted courtship, shebegins to pity and care for him, so that when he asks her to remake herselfinto Madeleine, she agrees, playing the same role the second time. Advertisement The great scene takes place in a hotel room, lit by a neon sign.Judy has arrived, not looking enough like Madeleine to satisfy Scottie, whowants her in the *same* dress, with the *same* hair. His eyes burn with zealousfixation. Judy realizes that Scottie is indifferent to her as a person and seesher as an object. Because she loves him, she accepts this. She locks herselfinto the bathroom, does the makeover, opens the door and walks toward Scottieout of a haunting green fog that is apparently explained by the neon sign, butis in fact a dreamlike effect. As Hitchcock cuts back and forth between Novak's face (showingsuch pain, such sorrow, such a will to please) and Stewart's (in a rapture oflust and gratified control), we feel hearts being torn apart: They are bothslaves of an image fabricated by a man who is not even in the room--Gavin, whocreated “Madeleine” as a device to allow himself to get away with the murder ofhis wife. As Scottie embraces “Madeleine,” even the background changes toreflect his subjective memories instead of the real room he's in. BernardHerrmann's score creates a haunting, unsettled yearning. And the camera circlesthem hopelessly, like the pinwheel images in Scottie's nightmares, until theshot is about the dizzying futility of our human desires, the impossibility offorcing life to make us happy. This shot, in its psychological, artistic andtechnical complexity, may be the one time in his entire career that AlfredHitchcock completely revealed himself, in all of his passion and sadness. (Isit a coincidence that the woman is named Madeleine--the word for the Frenchbiscuit, which, in Proust, brings childhood memories of loss and longingflooding back?)Alfred Hitchcocktook universal emotions, like fear, guilt andlust, placed them in ordinary characters, and developed them in images morethan in words. His most frequent character, an innocent man wrongly accused,inspired much deeper identification than the superficial supermen in today'saction movies. He was a great visual stylist in two ways: He used obviousimages and surrounded them with a subtle context. Consider the obvious ways hesuggests James Stewart's vertigo. An opening shot shows him teetering on aladder, looking down at a street below. Flashbacks show why he left the policeforce. A bell tower at a mission terrifies him, and Hitchcock creates a famousshot to show his point of view: Using a model of the inside of the tower, andzooming the lens in while at the same time physically pulling the camera back,Hitchcock shows the walls approaching and receding at the same time; the spacehas the logic of a nightmare. But then notice less obvious ways that the moviesneaks in the concept of falling, as when Scottie drives down San Francisco'shills, but never up. And note how truly he “falls” in love. Advertisement There is another element, rarely commented on, that makes “Vertigo”a great film. From the moment we are let in on the secret, the movie is equallyabout Judy: her pain, her loss, the trap she's in. Hitchcock so cleverlymanipulates the story that when the two characters climb up that mission tower,we identify with both of them, and fear for both of them, and in a way Judy isless guilty than Scottie. The danger is to see Judy, played by Novak, as an object in thesame way that Scottie sees her. She is in fact one of the most sympatheticfemale characters in all of Hitchcock. Over and over in his films, Hitchcock took delight in literallyand figuratively dragging his women through the mud--humiliating them, spoilingtheir hair and clothes as if lashing at his own fetishes. Judy, in “Vertigo,”is the closest he came to sympathizing with the female victims of his plots.And Novak, criticized at the time for playing the character too stiffly, hasmade the correct acting choices: Ask yourself how you would move and speak ifyou were in unbearable pain, and then look again at Judy.