When it opened in September, 1964, "A Hard Day'sNight" was a problematic entry in a disreputable form, the rock 'n' rollmusical. The Beatles were already a publicity phenomenon (70 million viewerswatched them on "The Ed Sullivan Show"), but they were not yetcultural icons. Many critics attended the movie and prepared to condescend, butthe movie could not be dismissed: It was so joyous and original that even theearly reviews acknowledged it as something special. After more than threedecades, it has not aged and is not dated; it stands outside its time, itsgenre and even rock. It is one of the great life-affirming landmarks of themovies. Advertisement In 1964, what we think of as "The '60s” had not yet reallyemerged from the embers of the 1950s. Perhaps this was the movie that soundedthe first note of the new decade--the opening chord on George Harrison's new12-string guitar. The film was so influential in its androgynous imagery thatuntold thousands of young men walked into the theater with short haircuts, andtheir hair started growing during the movie and didn't get cut again until the1970s. It was clear from the outset that "A Hard Day's Night"was in a different category from the rock musicals that had starred Elvis andhis imitators. It was smart, it was irreverent, it didn't take itselfseriously, and it was shot and edited byRichard Lesterin an electrifyingblack-and-white, semi-documentary style that seemed to follow the boys during aday in their lives. And it was charged with the personalities of the Beatles,whose one-liners dismissed the very process of stardom they were undergoing. “Areyou a mod or a rocker?” Ringo is asked at a press conference. “I'm a mocker,”he says. Musically, the Beatles represented a liberating breakthroughjust when the original rock impetus from the 1950s was growing thin. The filmis wall to wall with great songs, including "I Should Have Known Better," "Can't Buy Me Love," "I Wanna Be Your Man," "All My Loving," "Happy Just to Dance With You," "She Loves You," and others,including the title song, inspired by a remark dropped by Starr and writtenovernight by Lennon and McCartney. The Beatles were obviously not housebroken. The American rockstars who preceded them had been trained by their managers; Presley dutifullyanswered interview questions like a good boy. The Beatles had a clonelook--matching hair and clothes--but they belied it with the individuality oftheir dialogue, and there was no doubt which one was John, Paul, George andRingo. The original version of Alun Owen's Oscar-nominated screenplay suppliedthem with short one-liners (in case they couldn't act), but they were naturals,and new material was written to exploit that. They were the real thing. The most powerful quality evoked by "A Hard Day'sNight" is liberation. The long hair was just the superficial sign of that.An underlying theme is the difficulty establishment types have in getting theBeatles to follow orders. (For "establishment,” read uptight conventionalmiddle-class 1950s values.) Although their manager (Norman Rossington) tries tocontrol them and their TV director (Victor Spinetti) goes berserk because oftheir improvisations during a live TV broadcast, they act according to the waythey feel. Advertisement When Ringo grows thoughtful, he wanders away from the studio,and a recording session has to wait until he returns. When the boys are freedfrom their "job,” they run like children in an open field, and it ispossible that scene (during "Can't Buy Me Love”) snowballed into all thelove-ins, be-ins and happenings in the park of the later '60s. The notion ofdoing your own thing lurks within every scene. When a film is strikingly original, its influence shapes so manyothers that you sometimes can't see the newness in the first one. Godard's jumpcuts in "Breathless" (1960) turned up in every TV ad. Truffaut'sfreeze frame at the end of "The 400 Blows" (1959) became a cliche.Richard Lester's innovations in "A Hard Day's Night" have becomefamiliar; because the style, the subject and the stars are so suited to oneanother, the movie hasn't become dated. It's filled with the exhilaration offour musicians who were having fun and creating at the top of their form andknew it. Movies were tamer in 1964. Big Hollywood productions used crewsof 100 people and Mitchell cameras the size of motorcycles. Directors used thetraditional grammar of master shot, alternating closeups, insert shots,re-establishing shots, dissolves and fades. Actors were placed in carefulcompositions. But the cat was already out of the bag; directors like JohnCassavetes had started making movies that played like dramas but looked likedocumentaries. They used light 16mm cameras, hand-held shots, messycompositions that looked like they might have been snatched during moments ofreal life. That was the tradition Lester drew on. In 1959 he'd directed"The Running, Jumping and Standing Still Film," starringPeter Sellersand Spike Milligan among others: It was hand-held, anarchic, goofy, andcontains the same spirit that infects "A Hard Day's Night." Lesterhad shot documentaries and TV commercials, could work quick and dirty, and knewhe had to, because his budget was $500,000 for "A Hard Day's Night.” In his opening sequence, which shows the Beatles mobbed at astation as they try to board a train, Lester achieves an incredible energylevel: We feel the hysteria of the fans and the excitement of the Beatles,intercut with the title song (the first time movie titles had done that),implying that the songs and the adulation were sides of the same coin. Otherscenes borrow the same documentary look; a lot feels improvised, although onlya few scenes actually were. Advertisement Lester did not invent the techniques used in "A Hard Day'sNight," but he brought them together into a grammar so persuasive that heinfluenced many other films. Today when we watch TV and see quick cutting,hand-held cameras, interviews conducted on the run with moving targets, quicklyintercut snatches of dialogue, music under documentary action and all the othertrademarks of the modern style, we are looking at the children of "A HardDay's Night." The film is so tightly cut, there's hardly a down moment, buteven with so many riches, it's easy to pick the best scene: The concert footageas the Beatles sing "She Loves You.” This is one of the most sustainedorgasmic sequences in the movies. As the Beatles perform, Lester shows themclearly having a lot of fun--grinning as they sing--and then intercuts themwith quick shots of the audience, mostly girls, who scream without pause forthe entire length of the song, cry, jump up and down, call out the names oftheir favorites, and create a frenzy so passionate that it still, after allthese years, has the power to excite. (My favorite audience member is thetearful young blond, beside herself with ecstasy, tears running down hercheeks, crying out "George!”) The innocence of the Beatles and "A Hard Day's Night"was of course not to last. Ahead was the crushing pressure of being the mostpopular musical group of all time, and the dalliance with the mystic east, andthe breakup, and the druggy fallout from the '60s, and the death of JohnLennon. The Beatles would go through a long summer, a disillusioned fall, atragic winter. But, oh, what a lovely springtime. And it's all in a movie.