I should likeHal Hartley's “Flirt” a lot more than I do, sinceit illustrates one of my favorite mantras: “A film is not about what it isabout, but how it is about it.” A good film or a bad film can be made aboutanything. Therefore, to dismiss (or praise) a film solely because of itssubject matter, it is not necessary to see it. That is why people who makestatements beginning with the words “I don't like films about...” are idiots,or censors. What “Flirt” does is tell the same story three different times,in three different countries, in three slightly different ways. Thus it provesmy point. All three stories are “about” the same thing--a flirtatious lovertrying to decide between two enticing partners. By telling the story threetimes, Hartley invites us to see the story as simply the occasion for theexercise of his art. Which of the versions, we can ask, tells the story best?The “New York” section of the film involves a man who ends up explaining, “Iwas shot by the husband of a woman I thought I might be in love with.” The “Berlin”section involves a gay man who explains, “I was shot by the wife of a man Ithought I might be in love with.” In “Tokyo,” the milieu changes to theintrigues in a dance troupe, but the dynamic is essentially the same. Advertisement In each story, a character is about to leave town and asks a newlover: “Do we have a future together?” In each story, the new lover asks fortime, and calls another lover, trying to decide between the two. In each story,three bystanders give advice. In each story, there is a telephone conversationinvolving much use of the word “no,” and a shooting, and a scene in anemergency room. As an idea, I like it. It would be useful in a film class. Iwill refer to it in other reviews. It illustrates a point, and an approach. Ittook nerve to make. Hartley keeps pushing the edges of the envelope. But it'snot much fun to watch. Sitting in the theater, I found myself musing about the theoryof “memes” floated by Richard Dawkins, in his famous book “The Selfish Gene.”Memes are like genes, except they are composed of information, not DNA. Hesuggests that just as genes can contain the recipes for producing people, orcauliflowers, so memes contain information that can be combined to produceculture. I have greatly oversimplified, of course, but the point is: Does“Flirt” make a Darwinian argument? Is it showing us three competingmeme-groups, all beginning in much the same place on an evolutionary tree, justas in Mendel's garden there might be three pea-patches? Are they in a strugglefor survival of the fittest? The memes involved are all familiar to consumersof popular culture. They include (a) a love triangle, (b) the jealous partner,(c) a journey of separation, (d) a shooting, (e) the emergency room and (f) theanswer to the question, “What happened to you?” (Of course, each meme is madeup of countless tinier memes, like “drink,” “wound,” “makeup,” etc.) Thesememes can express themselves in different guises (English, German, Japanese,gay, straight). To a moviegoer from Mars who had never seen human beings beforeand knew nothing of our sexuality, they might look to be the same story. TheMartian would not notice that one of the men in Berlin is black, and almosteveryone in Tokyo is Japanese; to a Martian these differences would be just asinvisible as three slightly different frogs might be to us. In the very longrun, however, the fittest frog is likely to find its descendants still in thepond. And is one of these similar stories more likely to survive, and be toldmore often and inspire more other stories, than the others? I will not keep youin suspense: I do not know. But I suppose questions something like this arewhat Hal Hartley wants us to ask. I do not, in other words, think he expects usto say, “What a fascinating story! I want to see it told twice again--once inBerlin, once in Tokyo!” He has created a cultural experiment, an exercise instorytelling and movie going. Like many other cultural experiments (minimalistart, “Finnegan's Wake,” the Chicago Tribune's new Friday section), it is moreamusing to talk about than to experience. I'm going to dine out on “Flirt” fora long time. I won't need to see it again; I'll remember.