The first time I sawJacques Tati's “Mr. Hulot's Holiday,” Ididn't laugh as much as I thought I was supposed to. But I didn't forget thefilm, and I saw it again in a film class, and then bought the laserdisc and sawit a third and fourth time, and by then it had become part of my treasure. ButI still didn't laugh as much as I thought I was supposed to, and now I think Iunderstand why. Itis not a comedy of hilarity but a comedy of memory, nostalgia, fondness andgood cheer. There are some real laughs in it, but “Mr. Hulot's Holiday” givesus something rarer, an amused affection for human nature--so odd, so valuable,so particular. Advertisement Themovie was released in 1953, and played for months, even years, in art cinemas. “Mr.Hulot” was as big a hit in its time as “Like Water for Chocolate,” “The GodsMust Be Crazy” and other small films that people recommend to each other. Therewas a time when any art theater could do a week's good business just by booking“Hulot.” Jacques Tati (1908-1982) made only four more features in the next 20years, much labored over, much admired, but this is the film for which he'll beremembered. Themovie tells the story of Mr. Hulot's holiday by the sea, in Brittany. As playedby Tati, Hulot is a tall man, all angles, “a creature of silhouettes,” asStanley Kauffmann observed: “There is never a closeup of him, and his facialexpressions count for little.” He arrives at the seaside in his improbablelittle car, which looks like it was made for a Soap Box Derby and rides onbicycle wheels. (I always assumed this vehicle was built for the movie, but no:It is a 1924 Amilcar, and must have given its original owners many perplexingmoments.) Hulot,decked out in holiday gear and smoking a pipe, is friendly to a fault, but heis the man nobody quite sees. The holiday-makers are distracted by their ownworlds, companions and plans, and notice Hulot only when something goes wrong,as it often does. The lobby of his seaside hotel, for example, is an island ofcalm until he leaves the door open, so that the wind can create a series ofsmall but amusing annoyances that must have taken days to set up. Tatidoesn't make a big point of establishing characters, but gradually we recognizefaces. There is a pretty blond (Nathalie Pascaud) who is on holiday by herself,and is always cheerful, in a detached sort of way. Hulot the eligible bachelorwalks out with her, takes her for a ride and even attempts unsuccessfully to gohorseback riding with her, but she keeps him at a distance with her smile. Sheremains an elusive vision, like the blond in the convertible in “AmericanGraffiti.” Advertisement Othersare busy beavering away at being themselves. There is a waiter who cannotbelieve the trouble people put him to. An old couple who think they have beenassigned to inspect everything in their path. A retired general, easilyoffended. Small children who are protected by the god of children, so their icecream cone seems certain to spill but never quite does. “Mr.Hulot's Holiday” is a French film, with hardly any words in it. It plays as asilent film with music (a lilting, repetitive melody), a lot of sound effectsand half-heard voices. Tati was a silent clown; he worked as a mime as a youngman, and his Hulot seems to lack the knack of getting into a conversation. Themovie is constructed with the meticulous attention to detail of a Keaton orChaplin. Sight gags are set up with such patience that they seem to exposehidden functions in the clockwork of the universe. Consider the scene whereHulot is painting his kayak, and the tide carries the paint can out to sea andthen floats it in again, perfectly timed, when his brush is ready for it again.How was this scene done? Is it a trick, or did Tati actually experiment withtides and cans until he got it right? Is it “funny”? No, it is miraculous. Thesea is indifferent to painters, but nevertheless provides the can when it isneeded, and life goes on, and the boat gets painted. Andthen consider Tati when he goes out paddling in his tiny kayak, which like hiscar is the wrong size for him. It capsizes. In another comedy, that would meanthe hero gets wet, and we're supposed to laugh. Not here; the boat folds up injust such a way that it looks like a shark, and there is a panic on the beach.Hulot remains oblivious. There is an almost spiritual acceptance in hisbehavior; nothing goes as planned, but nothing surprises him. Notonly sights but sounds have a will of their own in Tati's universe. Listen tothe thwanking sound made by the door in the hotel dining room. Does it annoyHulot, who has been placed in the Lonely Guy table near to it? Probably, but itis in the nature of the door to thwank, and we sense that it has thwanked for ageneration, and will thwank until the day the little clapboard hotel is torndown to put up a beachfront gargantoplex. Advertisement Letme try to explain my relationship with “Hulot.” The first time I saw it, Iexpected something along the lines of a Hollywood screwball comedy. Instead,the movie opens with its sweet little melody, which is quite pleased that lifegoes on. Hulot arrives (inconveniencing a dog that wants to sleep in the road)and tries his best to be a well-behaved holiday-maker. He is so polite thatwhen the announcer on the hotel's radio says “Good night, everybody!” he bowsand doffs his hat. Because there were no closeups, because the movie did notinsist on exactly who Hulot was, he became the audience--he was me. Imet all the people Hulot met, I became accustomed to their daily perambulationsas he did, and I accompanied him as he blundered into a funeral and wasmistaken as a mourner, and when he was accosted by a rug, and when a towropeboinged him into the sea. And then the holiday was over, and everyone began topack and leave, and there was the hint of how lonely this coastal village wouldbe until next summer, when exactly the same people would return to do exactlythe same things. WhenI saw the film a second time, the wonderful thing was, it was like returning tothe hotel. It wasn't like I was seeing the film again; it was like I wasrecognizing the people from last year. There's the old couple again (good, theymade it through another year). The waiter (where does he work in the winter?).And the blond girl (still no man in her life; maybe this is the summer that . ..). Whenhas a film so subtly and yet so completely captured nostalgia for pasthappiness? The movie is about the simplest of human pleasures: The desire toget away for a few days, to play instead of work, to breathe in the sea air,and maybe meet someone nice. It is about the hope that underlies all vacations,and the sadness that ends them. And it is amused, too, that we go about ourdays so intently, while the sea and the sky go about theirs.