Puccini's “Madame Butterfly” is one of the cruelest stories evertold. In 19th century Japan, an American Navy officer named Pinkerton marries a15-year-old girl named Cio-Cio-San, never intending to take his vows seriously.He leaves this Butterfly behind, promising to return. When he does finallyreturn, it is to discover his bride has borne him a child. The officer has inthe meantime married “a real American bride,” and visits Butterfly *with hisnew wife* so that they can take her child from her and raise him as anAmerican. *And* Pinkerton gets to sing a sad song at the end. Advertisement Thisis such heartlessness that my eyes are more likely to well up with anger thanwith the sorrow, which is the approved emotion while attending “MadameButterfly.” I would like, just once, to hear Pinkerton's toadying friend clearhis throat and ask, “Ah, excuse me, old man, but wouldn't it be rather easieron Butterfly if you left your new wife behind on the ship?” The moral imbalancein the opera is so extreme that it provides a way to measure racial attitudes,for there was once a time when some audiences felt sorry for Butterfly, yes,but felt that Pinkerton was, after all, really only doing the right thing. Thisbeautiful new film version of “Madame Butterfly” is not a revisionist approach;it films Puccini's opera more or less as it was intended to be seen, and ofcourse that is what we want (I am not looking forward to theBaz Luhrmannversion, with Pinkerton as the leader of a motorcycle gang, and Butterfly asthe daughter of a Korean grocer in the Bronx). The approach is traditional, thepace is attentive, and yet the emotion is still all there, and when Pinkerton'scarriage comes rolling up with his new family inside, my blood boils. Thekey casting decision is Butterfly, and the filmmakers have discovered a newface for Cio-Cio-San, a 27-year-old Chinese singer namedYing Huang. She hassaid in interviews that she will never sing the role on the stage, because hervoice is not big enough, but in the intimate spaces of this film, it fills allthe corners. She may not look 15, but she does look young and defenseless, andas the depth of Pinkerton's betrayal sinks in, she exhibits true pathos. Pinkertonis played by another newcomer,Richard Troxell, who made his professional debutonly in 1993. His voice is splendid and his manner assured, and he does notbetray by one flick of an eyelid what a monster Pinkerton is. That is thecorrect approach, I suppose; one tiny glimmer of insight, and Pinkerton islost. Advertisement Filmsof operas have two avenues open to them: Cast for the voices, or cast for thefaces. There must almost always be a compromise in one direction or the other.There is a stage performance of “Butterfly” on laserdisc starring a soprano whohas a magnificent voice but is old enough to be Butterfly's grandmother.Watching the disc, I don't care; she is a superb actress, and once I acceptthat I am watching a stage performance of great music, Puccini sweeps allquibbles aside. This“Butterfly,” however, is essentially a film, and benefits from Ying Huang'sfresh face and manner. She has several moving scenes with her servant, Suzuki(Ning Liang), also well-cast, and it's touching to see doubt creeping into hereyes as Suzuki asks, “Have you ever heard of a foreign husband returning?” Thefilm has been directed byFrederic Mitterrand(nephew of the late Frenchpresident), who intercuts his crisp color photography with newsreels of theU.S. fleet visiting Japan around the turn of the century. He uses shots of theStars and Stripes, and Puccini's sly quotations from “The Star-Spangled Banner,”to set up an ironic contrast between Butterfly's trust in America andPinkerton's betrayal of that faith. And of course there are the great sorrowfularias that have become among the most familiar of all operatic music. Fromthe narrow point of view of its musical quality, this is not at the level youwould find in a first-class opera house. But as a treatment of the story, as anevocation of the emotions of love and the wound of betrayal, it is close toPuccini's intentions, and very moving.