Charles Laughton's "The Night of the Hunter” (1955) is oneof the greatest of all American films, but has never received the attention itdeserves because of its lack of the proper trappings. Many “great movies” areby great directors, but Laughton directed only this one film, which was acritical and commercial failure long overshadowed by his acting career. Manygreat movies use actors who come draped in respectability and prestige, butRobert Mitchumhas always been a raffish outsider. And many great movies arerealistic, but “Night of the Hunter” is an expressionistic oddity, telling itschilling story through visual fantasy. People don't know how to categorize it,so they leave it off their lists. Advertisement Yet what a compelling, frightening and beautiful film it is! Andhow well it has survived its period. Many films from the mid-1950s, even thegood ones, seem somewhat dated now, but by setting his story in an inventedmovie world outside conventional realism, Laughton gave it a timelessness. Yes,the movie takes place in a small town on the banks of a river. But the townlooks as artificial as a Christmas card scene, the family's house with itsstrange angles inside and out looks too small to live in, and the river becomesa set so obviously artificial it could have been built for a completelystylized studio film like "Kwaidan" (1964). Everybodyknows the Mitchum character, the sinister “Reverend” Harry Powell. Even thosewho haven't seen the movie have heard about the knuckles of his two hands, andhow one has the letters H-A-T-E tattooed on them, and the other the lettersL-O-V-E.Bruce Springsteendrew on those images in his song "CautiousMan”:"On his right hand Billy'd tattooed the word "love”and on his left handwas the word "fear” And in which hand he held his fate was never clear” Manymovie lovers know by heart the Reverend's famous explanation to the wide-eyedboy ("Ah, little lad, you're staring at my fingers. Would you like me totell you the little story of right-hand/left-hand?”) And the scene where theReverend stands at the top of the stairs and calls down to the boy and hissister has become the model for hundred other horror scenes. Butdoes this familiarity give "The Night of the Hunter” the recognition itdeserves? I don't think so because those famous trademarks distract from itsreal accomplishment. It is one of the most frightening of movies, with one ofthe most unforgettable of villains, and on both of those scores it holds up aswell after four decades as I expect "The Silence of the Lambs" to domany years from now. Thestory, somewhat rearranged: In a prison cell, Harry Powell discovers the secretof a condemned man (Peter Graves), who has hidden $10,000somewhere around hishouse. After being released from prison, Powell seeks out the man's widow,Willa Harper(Shelley Winters), and two children, John (Billy Chapin) and theowl-faced Pearl (Sally Jane Bruce). They know where the money is, but don'ttrust the “preacher.” But their mother buys his con game and marries him,leading to a tortured wedding night inside a high-gabled bedroom that looks across between a chapel and a crypt. Advertisement SoonWilla Harper is dead, seen in an incredible shot at the wheel of a car at thebottom of the river, her hair drifting with the seaweed. And soon the childrenare fleeing down the dream-river in a small boat, while the Preacher followsthem implacably on the shore; this beautifully stylized sequence uses the logicof nightmares, in which no matter how fast one runs, the slow step of thepursuer keeps the pace. The children are finally taken in by a Bible-fearingold lady (Lillian Gish), who would seem to be helpless to defend them againstthe single-minded murderer, but is as unyielding as her faith. Theshot of Winters at the bottom of the river is one of several remarkable imagesin the movie, which was photographed in black and white byStanley Cortez, whoshot Welles' "The Magnificent Ambersons," and once observed he was"always chosen to shoot weird things.” He shot few weirder than here,where one frightening composition shows a street lamp casting Mitchum'sterrifying shadow on the walls of the children's bedroom. The basement sequencecombines terror and humor, as when the Preacher tries to chase the children upthe stairs, only to trip, fall, recover, lunge and catch his fingers in thedoor. And the masterful nighttime river sequence uses giant foregrounds ofnatural details, like frogs and spider webs, to underline a kind of biblicalprogression as the children drift to eventual safety. Thescreenplay, based on a novel byDavis Grubb, is credited toJames Agee, one ofthe icons of American film writing and criticism, then in the final throes ofalcoholism. Laughton's widow,Elsa Lanchester, is adamant in her autobiography:“Charles finally had very little respect for Agee. And he hated the script, buthe was inspired by his hatred.” She quotes the film’s producer,Paul Gregory:“. . . the script that was produced on the screen is no more James Agee's . . .than I'mMarlene Dietrich.” Advertisement Whowrote the final draft? Perhaps Laughton had a hand. Lanchester and Laughtonboth remembered that Mitchum was invaluable as a help in working with the twochildren, whom Laughton could not stand. But the final film is all Laughton's,especially the dreamy, Bible-evoking final sequence, with Lillian Gishpresiding over events like an avenging elderly angel. RobertMitchum is one of the great icons of the second half-century of cinema. Despitehis sometimes scandalous off-screen reputation, despite his genial willingnessto sign on to half-baked projects, he made a group of films that led DavidThomson, in his Biographical Dictionary of Film, to ask, “How can I offer thishunk as one of the best actors in the movies?” And answer: “Since the war, noAmerican actor has made more first-class films, in so many different moods.”“The Night of the Hunter,” he observes, represents “the only time in his careerthat Mitchum acted outside himself,” by which he means there is little of theMitchum persona in the Preacher. Mitchumis uncannily right for the role, with his long face, his gravel voice, and thesilky tones of a snake-oil salesman. And Shelly Winters, all jitters andrepressed sexual hysteria, is somehow convincing as she falls so prematurelyinto, and out of, his arms. The supporting actors are like a chattering galleryof Norman Rockwell archetypes, their lives centered on bake sales, sodafountains and gossip. The children, especially the little girl, look more oddthan lovable, which helps the film move away from realism and into stylizednightmare. And Lillian Gish and Stanley Cortez quite deliberately, I think,composed that great shot of her which looks like nothing so much as Whistler'smother holding a shotgun. CharlesLaughton showed here that he had an original eye, and a taste for material thatstretched the conventions of the movies. It is risky to combine horror andhumor, and foolhardy to approach them through expressionism. For his firstfilm, Laughton made a film like no other before or since, and with suchconfidence it seemed to draw on a lifetime of work. Critics were baffled by it,the public rejected it, and the studio had a much more expensive Mitchumpicture (“Not as a Stranger”) it wanted to promote instead. But nobody who hasseen "The Night of the Hunter” has forgotten it, or Mitchum's voicecoiling down those basement stairs: "Chillll . . . dren?” Advertisement