Has there ever been a film where the music more perfectly suitedthe action than inCarol Reed's "The Third Man"? The score wasperformed on a zither byAnton Karas, who was playing in a Vienna beerhouse onenight when Reed heard him. The sound is jaunty but without joy, like whistlingin the dark. It sets the tone; the action begins like an undergraduate lark andthen reveals vicious undertones. Thestory begins with a spoken prologue ("I never knew the old Vienna, beforethe war. . ."). The shattered postwar city has been divided into French,American, British and Russian zones, each with its own cadre of suspiciousofficials. Into this sinkhole of intrigue falls an American innocent: HollyMartins (Joseph Cotton), alcoholic author of pulp Westerns. He has come at theinvitation of his college chum Harry Lime. But Lime is being buried whenMartins arrives in Vienna. Advertisement Howdid Lime die? That question is the engine that drives the plot, as Martinsplunges into the murk that Lime left behind. Calloway (Trevor Howard), theBritish officer in charge, bluntly says Lime was an evil man, and advises Hollyto take the next train home. But Harry had a girl named Anna (Alida Valli), whoHolly sees at Lime's grave, and perhaps she has some answers. Certainly Hollyhas fallen in love with her, although his trusting Yankee heart is no match forher defenses. "TheThird Man" (1949) was made by men who knew the devastation of Europe atfirst hand. Carol Reed worked for the British Army's wartime documentary unit,and the screenplay was byGraham Greene, who not only wrote about spies butoccasionally acted as one. Reed fought withDavid O. Selznick, his Americanproducer, over every detail of the movie; Selznick wanted to shoot on sets, usean upbeat score and castNoel Cowardas Harry Lime. His film would have beenforgotten in a week. Reed defied convention by shooting entirely on location inVienna, where mountains of rubble stood next to gaping bomb craters, and theruins of empire supported a desperate black market economy. And he insisted onKaras' zither music ("The Third Man Theme" was one of 1950's biggesthits). Reedand his Academy Award-winning cinematographer,Robert Krasker, also devised areckless, unforgettable visual style. More shots, I suspect, are tilted thanare held straight; they suggest a world out of joint. There are fantasticoblique angles. Wide-angle lenses distort faces and locations. And the bizarrelighting makes the city into an expressionist nightmare. (During a stakeout forLime, a little balloon man wanders onto the scene, and his shadow is a monsterthree stories high). Vienna in "The Third Man" is a more particularand unmistakable *place* than almost any other location in the history of themovies; the action fits the city like a hand slipping on a glove. Thenthere are the faces: Joseph Cotton's open, naive face contrasts with the"friends" of Harry Lime: the corrupt "Baron" Kurtz (ErnstDeutsch); the shifty Dr. Winkel (Erich Ponto), the ratlike Popescu (SiegfriedBreuer). Even a little boy with a rubber ball looks like a wizened imp. Theonly trusting faces are those of innocents like the hall porter (PaulHoerbiger) who tells Holly, "There was another man . . . a third man. .." and the beefy Sgt. Paine (Bernard Lee), Calloway's aide, who levels thedrunken Holly with a shot to the chin and then apologizes. Even the residentexiles are corrupt; Crabbin (Wilfrid Hyde-White), the head of the discussiongroup, chatters about culture while smoothly maneuvering his mistress out ofsight through doors and up stairs. Advertisement Asfor Harry Lime: He allowsOrson Wellesto make the most famous entrance in thehistory of the movies, and one of the most famous speeches. By the time Limefinally appears we have almost forgotten Welles is even *in* the movie. Thesequence is unforgettable: the meow of the cat in the doorway, the big shoes,the defiant challenge by Holly, the light in the window, and then the shot,pushing in, on Lime's face, enigmatic and teasing, as if two college chums hadbeen caught playing a naughty prank. Thefamous speech comes during an uneasy ride on a giant Ferris wheel; at onepoint, Lime slides open the door of the car they are riding in, and Hollyuneasily wraps an arm around a post. Harry tries to justify himself: "Youknow what the fellow said: In Italy for 30 years under the Borgias they hadwarfare, terror, murder and bloodshed, but they produced Michelangelo, Leonardoda Vinci and the Renaissance. In Switzerland they had brotherly love--they had500 years of democracy and peace, and what did that produce? The cuckooclock." (Greene says this speech was written by Welles.) Theemotional heart of the movie is Holly's infatuation with Anna, who will loveHarry and be grateful to him no matter what she learns. The scenes betweenHolly and Anna are enriched by tiny details, as when they visit Harry'sapartment and she opens a drawer without looking--because she already knowswhat will be inside. Or the way she sometimes slips and calls Holly"Harry." Everyone in the movie has trouble with names. Holly callsCalloway "Callahan," and Dr. Winkle insists on "VINK-ell!"And the name on Harry Lime's tombstone is wrong, too. Advertisement Thechase sequence in "The Third Man" is another joining of the rightaction with the right location. Harry escapes into the sewer system like acornered rat, and Reed edits the pursuit into long, echoing, empty sewervistas, and closeups of Lime's sweaty face, his eyes darting for a way out.Presumably there would be no lights in the Vienna sewers, but there are stronglight sources just out of sight behind every corner, throwing elongatedshadows, backlighting Harry and his pursuers. Thefinal scene in "The Third Man" is a long, elegiac sigh. It almost didnot exist. Selznick and Greene originally wanted a happy ending. (Greeneoriginally wrote, ". . . her hand was through his arm"). Reedconvinced Greene he was wrong. The movie ends as it begins, in a cemetery, andthen Calloway gives Holly a ride back to town. They pass Anna walking on theroadside. Holly asks to be let out of the jeep. He stands under a tree, waitingfor her. She walks toward him, past him, and then out of frame, never looking.After a long pause, Holly lights a cigarette and wearily throws away the match.Joseph Cottenrecalled later that he thought the scene would end sooner. ButReed kept the camera running, making it an unusually long shot, and absolutelyperfect. "TheThird Man" reflects the optimism of Americans and the bone-weariness ofEurope after the war. It's a story about grownups and children: Adults likeCalloway, who has seen at first hand the results of Lime's crimes, and childrenlike the trusting Holly, who believes in the simplified good and evil of hisWestern novels. "TheThird Man" is like the exhausted aftermath of "Casablanca." Bothhave heroes who are American exiles, awash in a world of treachery and blackmarket intrigue. Both heroes love a woman battered by the war. But"Casablanca" is bathed in the hope of victory, while "The ThirdMan" already reflects the Cold War years of paranoia, betrayal and theBomb. The hero doesn't get the girl in either movie--but in"Casablanca," Ilsa stays with the resistance leader to help in hisfight, while in "The Third Man" Anna remains loyal to a rat. YetHarry Lime saved Anna, a displaced person who faced certain death. Holly willnever understand what Anna did to survive the war, and Anna has absolutely nodesire to tell him. Ofall the movies I have seen, this one most completely embodies the romance ofgoing to the movies. I saw it first on a rainy day in a tiny, smoke-filledcinema on the Left Bank in Paris. It told a story of existential loss andbetrayal. It was weary and knowing, and its glorious style was an act ofdefiance against the corrupt world it pictured. Seeing it, I realized how manyHollywood movies were like the pulp Westerns that Holly Martins wrote: naiveformulas supplying happy endings for passive consumption. I read the other daythat they plan to remake "The Third Man." Do you think Anna will cavein to Holly--or will she remain true to her bitter cynicism and unspeakableknowledge? Advertisement