“Evita” allows the audience to identify with a heroine whoachieves greatness by--well, golly, by being who she is. It celebrates the lifeof a woman who begins as a quasi-prostitute, marries a powerful man, locks himout of her bedroom, and inspires the idolatry of the masses by spendingenormous sums on herself. When she sings: “They need to adore me--to ChristianDior me,” she's right on the money. I begin on this note not to criticize the new musical “Evita”(which I enjoyed very much), but to bring a touch of reality to the characterof Eva Peron, who, essentially, was famous because she was so very well-known.Her fame continued after her death, as her skillfully embalmed body went on toa long-running career of its own, displayed before multitudes, spirited toEurope, fought over, prayed over, and finally sealed beneath slabs of steel inan Argentine cemetery. Eva Peron lived only until 33, but she went out with along curtain call. Advertisement She was not an obvious subject for a musical.Andrew Lloyd WebberandTim Rice, who wrote the stage version of “Evita” and whose songs arewall-to-wall in the movie, must have known that; why else did they provide akey character named Che Guevera (onstage) and Che (on screen), to askembarrassing questions? “You let down your people, Evita,” he sings. She letdown the poor, shirtless ones by providing a glamorous facade for a fascistdictatorship, by salting away charity funds, and by distracting from herhusband's tacit protection of Nazi war criminals. Why, then, were Webber and Rice so right in choosing Eva Peronas their heroine? My guess is that they perfectly anticipated “Evita's” coreaudience--affluent, middle-aged and female. The musical celebrates Eva Peron'snarcissism, her furs and diamonds, her firm management of her man. Given suchenticements, what audience is going to quibble about ideology? For years I havewondered, during “Don't Cry for Me, Argentina,” why we were not to cry. Now Iunderstand: We need not cry because (a) Evita got everything out of life shedreamed of, and (b) Argentina should cry for itself. Even poor Juan Peronshould shed a tear or two; he is relegated in the movie to the status of a “walker,”a presentable man who adorns the arm of a rich and powerful woman as a humanfashion accessory. All of these thoughts, as I watched Alan Parker's “Evita,” didnot in the least prevent me from having a good time. I suspect Parker has asmany questions about his heroine as I do, and I am sure that Che (AntonioBanderas) and Juan Peron (Jonathan Pryce) do--not to mentionOliver Stone,co-author of the screenplay. Only Evita herself, magnificently embodied byMadonna, rises above the quibbles, as she should; if there is one thing a greatEvita should lack, it is any trace of self-doubt. Here we have a celebration ofa legendary woman (for those who take the film superficially) and a moral taleof a misspent life (for those who see more clearly). Advertisement Certainly Parker is a good director for this material. He hasmade more musicals than his contemporaries, not only “Bugsy Malone,” “Fame” and“The Commitments,” but especially “Pink Floyd the Wall,” one of the greatmodern musicals, where he uses similar images of marching automatons. Workingwith exteriors in Argentina and Hungary and richly detailed interior sets, hestages Evita's life as a soap opera version of “Triumph of the Will,” withgoose-stepping troops beating out the cadence of her rise to glory. The movie is almost entirely music; the fugitive lines of spokendialogue sound sheepish. Madonna, who took voice lessons to extend her range,easily masters the musical material. As importantly, she is convincing asEvita--from the painful early scene where, as an unacknowledged child, shetries to force entry into her father's funeral, to later scenes where the poorrural girl converts herself into a nightclub singer, radio star, desirablemistress, and political leader. There is a certain opaque quality in Madonna's Evita; what yousee is not exactly what you get. The Che character zeroes in on this,questioning her motives, doubting her ideals, pointing out contradictions andevasions. Yet for Evita there are no inconsistencies, because everything shedoes is at the service of her image. It is only if you believe she is at theservice of the poor that you begin to wonder. Listen closely as she sings: “ForI am ordinary, unimportant And undeserving Of such attention Unless we all areI think we all are So share my glory.” The poor, in other words, deserve whatEvita has, so her program consists of her having it and the poor being happyfor her. After all, if she didn't have it, she'd be poor, too. In other words:The lottery is wonderful, just as long as I win it. Banderas, as Che, sees through this; his performance is one ofthe triumphs of the movie. He sings well, he has a commanding screen presence,and he finds a middle ground between condemnation and giving the devil her due.He is “of the people” enough to feel their passion for Evita, and enough of arevolutionary to distrust his feelings. Pryce, as the dictator, remains more difficult to read. He isgrateful for the success Evita brings him (her broadcasts free him from prison,her campaigns win his elections, her fame legitimatizes his regime). But thereis a quiet little scene where he knocks on her locked bedroom door and thenshuffles back to his own room, and that scene speaks volumes for the hauntedlook in his eyes. The music, like most of the Webber/Rice scores, is repetitive tothe point of brainwashing. It's as if they come up with one good song and godirectly into rehearsals. The reason their songs become hits is that you'veheard them a dozen times by the end of the show. But Parker's visuals enliventhe music, and Madonna and Banderas bring it passion. By the end of the film wefeel like we've had our money's worth, and we're sure Evita has. Advertisement