Tell me you love me. I love you. Tell me you don't. I don't loveyou.By the time this exchange takes place, deep inside MichelangeloAntonioni's "L'Avventura," the conversation has nothing to do with love.It is more like an attempt to pass the time--like a game of solitaire, orflipping a coin. There is not even the possibility that the characters are inlove, can love, have loved, will love. "Too shallow to be truly lonely," Pauline Kael wrote, "they are people trying to escape their boredom byreaching out to one another and finding only boredom once again." Advertisement "L'Avventura" created a stir in 1960, when Kael picked itas the best film of the year. It was seen as the flip side of Fellini's"La Dolce Vita." Both directors were Italian, both depicted theircharacters in a fruitless search for sensual pleasure, both films ended at dawnwith emptiness and soul-sickness. But Fellini's characters, who weremiddle-class and had lusty appetites, at least were hopeful on their way todespair. For Antonioni's idle and decadent rich people, pleasure is anythingthat momentarily distracts them from the lethal ennui of their existence. Kaelagain: "The characters are active only in trying to discharge theiranxiety: Sex is their sole means of contact." The plot of "L'Avventura" became famous because, it wassaid, nothing happened in the movie. What we saw was a search without aconclusion, a disappearance without a solution. The title in English means"The Adventure," and it was not hard to imagine Antonioni's dry smile ashe penned those words on the first page of his screenplay. A group of wealthy friends are cruising the sea near Sicily on ayacht. They anchor near an island, swim ashore and begin to explore. Anna (LeaMassari) has quarreled with her lover Sandro (Gabriele Ferzetti), and has beenoverheard saying she wanted to be left alone. They both go ashore, along withher friend Claudia (Monica Vitti) and others. After a time Anna cannot befound. The others search the island for her; it is mostly rocks and scrubbytrees, and there seem few places to hide, but she cannot be found. And she is never seen again. If "L'Avventura" were a conventionalmovie, you would be furious with me for revealing this information, because youwould assume the movie was about the search for Anna. It is not. It is aboutthe sense in which all of the characters are on the brink of disappearance;their lives are so unreal and their relationships so tenuous they can barely besaid to exist. They are like bookmarks in life: holding places, but notinvolved in the story. The yacht is sent to bring help. As Anna's friends comb theisland, Aldo Scavarda's cinematography is haunting: Humans are placedoff-center in compositions, as if the rocks have been there forever and thesevisitors are likely to slip off into the sea--or the sky, or shadows. They heara boat, far away. There is a teasing shot in which we see it--or almost see it.Did Anna leave on it? Later, perhaps, they hear another boat. Advertisement These phantom boats are like the dead body that was or wasn't onthe park grass in Antonioni's "Blow-Up" (1967). The 1975 Australian film"Picnic at Hanging Rock" is also about a person consumed by a landscape.The effect of Anna's disappearance is disquieting; we want to know there eitherwas a boat or wasn't a boat, and Anna either did or didn't leave on it. Thefilm remains slippery. Eventually the yacht returns with the police and Anna'sfather (who seems unhappy to be called away from his responsibilities forsomething insignificant like the disappearance of a child). Then there is a scene that is shocking in two ways: Firstbecause it occurs at all, and second because it hardly seems to occur--it'slike the ghost-boat we're not sure we saw. The party has returned to the yacht,and Sandro, Anna's lover, grabs Claudia, her friend, and kisses her. Claudiapulls away. The moment passes. What is she thinking? Is she disgusted that hewould so soon betray Anna? It is impossible to know. On shore, Sandro makes a report at police headquarters andfollows Claudia onto a train. He says he loves her. Later they are joined byother friends, including Gloria (Dorothy De Poliolo), a sexy writer who walksoblivious through working-class streets where the men and boys boldly ogle her,accepting their attention as if it is the weather. There is an interestingpoint being made here: She is at pains to present herself as sexy, but hasforgotten why she does that. She dresses and moves out of a memory of a timewhen she cared what men thought of her. They still think, but she has burnedout her ability to care. Claudia accepts Sandro as her lover. Anna is forgotten. Neithermourns her. She served a function (lover, friend), and now that she is gone,that function must be filled by another. They check into a hotel room together,and while the bellboy is watching Sandro tries to kiss Claudia, but when thebellboy has gone Sandro doesn't try again. He goes down to a party in thehotel. Claudia sleeps, wakes, runs down the corridor, hoping (or afraid) thatAnna has returned. She finds Sandro downstairs, sprawled on a sofa with aprostitute. She runs outside. As Sandro rises, the hooker asks for asouvenir--French for a memory--and he throws bills down at her body. Outside,the empty dawn. Advertisement When "L'Avventura" was released, it became a joke to referto "Antonioniennui." At its premiere at the Cannes festival, the audiencebooed, but it won the Jury Prize and became a box-office success all over theworld. It was the most pure and stark of several films about characters whodrifted in existential limbo. In America, it came at a time when beatnikscultivated detachment, when modern jazz kept an ironic distance from melody,when it was hip to be cool. That whole time came crashing down later in the1960s, but while it lasted, "L'Avventura" was its anthem. I did not much connect with the film when I saw it first--howcould I, at 18? These people were bored by a lifestyle beyond my wildestdreams. When I taught the film in a class 15 years later, it seemed affectedand contrived, a feature-length idea but not a movie. Only recently, seeing itagain, did I realize how much clarity and passion Antonioni brought to thefilm's silent cry of despair. His characters were parasites whose money allowed them to clearaway the distractions of work, responsibility, goals and purposes, and exposedthe utter emptiness within. It is possible to be rich and happy, of course, butfor that you need a mind, and interests. It is impossible to be happy simplybecause one is ceaselessly entertained. "L'Avventura" becomes a place inour imagination--a melancholy moral desert. Why don't we have movies like "L'Avventura" anymore?Because we don't ask the same kinds of questions anymore. We have replaced the"purpose of life” with the "choice of lifestyle.” I used to thinkPeggy Lee's "Is That All There Is?" was the saddest song. Antonioni canthink of a sadder one: "More."