In Prague in 1988 Russian trucks rumble through the streets andCzechs make an accommodation with their masters, or pay a price. Louka pays aprice. Because in a moment of unwise wit he wrote a flippant answer on anofficial form, he has been bounced out of the Philharmonic and now scrapes byplaying his cello at funerals, and repairing tombstones. Life has consolations. A parade of young women visits his “tower,”an apartment at the top of a rickety old building. At 55, Louka (Zdenek Sverak)looks enough likeSean Conneryto make hearts flutter, and he has the samesardonic charm. But he is broke and needs a car, and so he listens when hisgravedigger pal makes an offer. The pal's Soviet niece must get married orshe'll be sent back to Russia, where she does not want to go. The niece and herchain-smoking aunt will pay Louka to go through a phony marriage. Advertisement Against his better judgment, he does. Then the niece skips toWest Germany to join a former boyfriend, leaving behind her 5-year-old son,Kolya (Andrej Chalimon). The aunt dies, and Louka is stuck with the kid. Thisputs a severe cramp in his love life (the kid is delivered in the middle of awould-be seduction), and besides he knows nothing about kids, and this onespeaks only Russian, a language Louka has on principle refused to learn. The outlines of this story are conventional and sentimental (isthere any doubt he will come to love the child?). What makes “Kolya” special isthe way it paints the details. Like the films of the Czech New Wave in the late1960s, it has a cheerful, irreverent humor, and an eye for the absurdities ofhuman behavior. Consider Louka's old mother, who refuses to care for the childbecause she will not have a Russian in the house, and watch the scene whereRussian army trucks stop outside her cottage and the kid hears his nativelanguage and runs out happily to talk to the soldiers. Consider, too, the bureaucracy, faithful to the Soviets. Loukais subjected to a grilling by a hard-nosed official who suspects, correctly,that the marriage was a sham, but the tone of the interview is much alteredbecause Kolya refuses to stay outside, and draws pictures all during theinterrogation; his evident love for his “stepfather” is a confusing factor. Quirky details are chosen to show the gradual coming together ofLouka and Kolya. The cellist drags the kid to the funerals where he plays, andthe kid watches open-eyed as the musicians play and the soloist sings. It isperhaps not surprising that his first words of Czech are the 23rd Psalm. Butlook at Louka's fade when he realizes the kid is using a puppet theater tostage a cremation. There are many women in Louka's life, but one becomes special:Klara, played byLibuse Safrankova. He ropes her in to help him care for thechild, and eventually something fairly wonderful happens, and at 55 Louka findsa way to break out of the trap of his routine. His new freedom is shown againsta backdrop of the end of the Cold War, as the Berlin Wall drops, the Russiansleave town, and joyous Czechs take to the streets, chanting “It's finally over!”Louka is placed in the center of the celebrants, where he sees, of course, hisformer bureaucratic interrogator now part of the joyous crowd. “Kolya” was written by its star, Zdenek Sverak, and directed byhis son, Jan. It is a work of love, beautifully photographed byVladimir Smutnyin rich deep reds and browns, with steam rising from soup and the little boylooking wistfully at the pigeons on the other side of the tower window. It issaid that American audiences are going to fewer foreign films these days.Missing a film like “Kolya,” winner of a 1997 Golden Globe, would not be aprice I would be willing to pay. Advertisement