A smart, ironic documentary named “Hype!” charts the rise ofgrunge and its enormous impact on the Seattle scene (at the height of thephenomenon, Spin magazine was gushing, “Seattle is to the rock 'n' roll worldwhat Bethlehem is to Christianity”). Local types are more sardonic. ArtChantry, who designed grunge posters and album covers, observes: “A lot ofoccult stuff takes place here. The first flying saucers were sighted in thePacific Northwest. This is the serial killer capital of the world. The Mansonfamily used to vacation up this way.” What grunge did in the mid-'80s was takeheavy metal, punk and old time rock 'n' roll and put it together into a soundthat was looser and more fun than a lot of the music on the national scene. Alocal label named Sub Pop, realistically observing that none of the Seattlebands was known outside of town, promoted its label instead of its bands. SubPop flew a British journalist into town, he toured the clubs and wrote aninfluential article for the UK music magazine Melody Maker. Soon, the moviesays, “bands that had never played live professionally were being signed up bylabels.” “Hype!” doesn't put down the music; it likes grunge but is amused bythe way publicity and image took over, turning a local movement into acommodity. Bands likePearl Jam, Soundgarden, Mudhoney and Nirvana are seenperforming, but there's also early video footage of obscure club bands,including one where a drummer falls onto a guitarist and the band keepsplaying. Nothing stopped a performance, photographer Charles Petersonremembers; audiences and band members would drink together, often during aperformance, and fans came to party, not criticize (he contrasts Seattle crowdswith sniffy New Yorkers saying “I think they just missed a note”). Advertisement By the end, in the early 1990s, “Pearl Jam” was the answer to aquestion on “Jeopardy,” and Kurt Cobain's Nirvana was one of the hottest bandsin the country. Then Cobain, who had a history of drug problems, killedhimself. In such cases it is always said that the publicity and the pressuregot to him, but actually, of course, the drugs got to him. There is touchingfootage of a candlelight vigil at the Space Needle in his honor--and in a way hisstory is still playing out through his wife,Courtney Love, who got her own acttogether, emerged as a powerful actress in “The People vs. Larry Flynt” and mayprove to be the most important figure produced by the period, if not by themusic. Pearl Jam's Eddie Vedder is probably the key musical figure fromgrunge, and in “Hype!” he comes across as intelligent and thoughtful. Whileacknowledging that the grunge phenomenon was dissipated by its fame (it wasmost at home in small local clubs), he sounds like the survivor of a war or ashipwreck: “It will be a tragedy if we don't do something with this.” But, ofcourse, they did. “Hype!” has been directed byDoug Prayand photographed byRobert Bennett, who give you a real sense of the music and its excitement,while at the same time keeping a certain distance as journalists. They findfunny, articulate local observers--producers, journalists, musicians, fans,publicists--who lived through the scene and kept it in perspective. ProducerSteve Fisk says the whole thing reminds him of Baby Huey, waddling aroundmaking delightful discoveries: The record labels waddled to Austin, Texas, andAthens, Ga., and then they waddled to Seattle and waddled on to Minneapolis: “Wewere just like part of that process.”