You cannot know the history of silent film unless you know theface ofRenee Maria Falconetti. In a medium without words, where the filmmakersbelieved that the camera captured the essence of characters through their faces,to see Falconetti in Dreyer's "The Passion of Joan of Arc” (1928) is tolook into eyes that will never leave you. Falconetti(as she is always called) made only this single movie. "It may be thefinest performance ever recorded on film,” wrote Pauline Kael. She was anactress in Paris when she was seen on the stage of a little boulevard theaterbyCarl Theodor Dreyer(1889-1968), the Dane who was one of the greatest earlydirectors. It was a light comedy, he recalled, but there was something in herface that struck him: "There was a soul behind that facade.” He did screentests without makeup, and found what he sought, a woman who embodiedsimplicity, character and suffering. Advertisement Dreyerhad been given a large budget and a screenplay by his French producers, but hethrew out the screenplay and turned instead to the transcripts of Joan's trial.They told the story that has become a legend: of how a simple country maid fromOrleans, dressed as a boy, led the French troops in their defeat of the Britishoccupation forces. How she was captured by French loyal to the British andbrought before a church court, where her belief that she had been inspired byheavenly visions led to charges of heresy. There were 29 cross-examinations,combined with torture, before Joan was burned at the stake in 1431. Dreyercombined them into one inquisition, in which the judges, their faces twistedwith their fear of her courage, loomed over her with shouts and accusations. Ifyou go to the Danish Film Museum in Copenhagen you can see Dreyer's model forthe extraordinary set he built for the film. He wanted it all in one piece(with movable walls for the cameras), and he began with towers at four corners,linked with concrete walls so thick they could support the actors and equipment.Inside the enclosure were chapels, houses and the ecclesiastical court, builtaccording to a weird geometry that put windows and doors out of plumb with oneanother and created discordant visual harmonies (the film was made at theheight of German Expressionism and the French avant-garde movement in art). Itis helpful to see the model in Copenhagen, because you will never see the wholeset in the movie. There is not one single establishing shot in all of "ThePassion of Joan of Arc,” which is filmed entirely in closeups and medium shots,creating fearful intimacy between Joan and her tormentors. Nor are there easilyread visual links between shots. In his brilliant shot-by-shot analysis of thefilm, David Bordwell of the University of Wisconsin concludes: "Of thefilm's over 1,500 cuts, fewer than 30 carry a figure or object over from oneshot to another; and fewer than 15 constitute genuine matches on action.” Advertisement Whatdoes this mean to the viewer? There is a language of shooting and editing thatwe subconsciously expect at the movies. We assume that if two people aretalking, the cuts will make it seem that they are looking at one another. Weassume that if a judge is questioning a defendant, the camera placement andediting will make it clear where they stand in relation to one another. If wesee three people in a room, we expect to be able to say how they are arrangedand which is closest to the camera. Almost all such visual cues are missingfrom "The Passion of Joan of Arc.” InsteadDreyer cuts the film into a series of startling images. The prison guards andthe ecclesiastics on the court are seen in high contrast, often from a lowangle, and although there are often sharp architectural angles behind them, weare not sure exactly what the scale is (are the windows and walls near orfar?). Bordwell's book reproduces a shot of three priests, presumably lined upfrom front to back, but shot in such a way that their heads seem stacked on topof one another. All of the faces of the inquisitors are shot in bright light,without makeup, so that the crevices and flaws of the skin seem to reflect adiseased inner life. Falconetti,by contrast, is shot in softer grays, rather than blacks and whites. Alsowithout makeup, she seems solemn and consumed by inner conviction. Consider anexchange where a judge asks her whether St. Michael actually spoke to her. Herimpassive face seems to suggest that whatever happened between Michael andherself was so far beyond the scope of the question that no answer is conceivable. Whydid Dreyer fragment his space, disorient the visual sense and shoot in closeup?I think he wanted to avoid the picturesque temptations of a historical drama.There is no scenery here, aside from walls and arches. Nothing was put in tolook pretty. You do not leave discussing the costumes (although they are allauthentic). The emphasis on the faces insists that these very people did whatthey did. Dreyer strips the church court of its ritual and righteousness andbetrays its members as fleshy hypocrites in the pay of the British; theirnarrow eyes and mean mouths assault Joan's sanctity. Advertisement ForFalconetti, the performance was an ordeal. Legends from the set tell of Dreyerforcing her to kneel painfully on stone and then wipe all expression from herface--so that the viewer would read suppressed or inner pain. He filmed thesame shots again and again, hoping that in the editing room he could findexactly the right nuance in her facial expression. There is an echo in thefamous methods of the French directorRobert Bresson, who in his own 1962"The Trial of Joan of Arc” put actors through the same shots again andagain, until all apparent emotion was stripped from their performances. In hisbook on Dreyer, Tom Milne quotes the director: "When a child suddenly seesan onrushing train in front of him, the expression on his face is spontaneous.By this I don't mean the feeling in it (which in this case is sudden fear), butthe fact that the face is completely uninhibited.” That is the impression hewanted from Falconetti. Thathe got it is generally agreed. Perhaps it helps that Falconetti never madeanother movie (she died in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 1946). We do not haveher face in other roles to compare with her face here, and the movie seems toexist outside time (the French director Jean Cocteau famously said it playedlike "an historical document from an era in which the cinema didn't exist”). Tomodern audiences, raised on films where emotion is conveyed by dialogue andaction more than by faces, a film like "The Passion of Joan of Arc” is anunsettling experience--so intimate we fear we will discover more secrets thanwe desire. Our sympathy is engaged so powerfully with Joan that Dreyer's visualmethods--his angles, his cutting, his closeups--don't play like stylisticchoices, but like the fragments of Joan's experience. Exhausted, starving,cold, in constant fear, only 19 when she died, she lives in a nightmare wherethe faces of her tormentors rise up like spectral demons. Perhapsthe secret of Dreyer's success is that he asked himself, "What is thisstory really about?” And after he answered that question he made a movie aboutabsolutely nothing else.An excellent essay by Matthew Dessem on "The Passion ofJoan of Arc" here:http://criterioncollection.blogspot.com/2006/11/62-passion-of-joan-of-arc.htmlThis is part of his undertaking to watch and write about every film in theCriterion Collection.