The heavyweight title fight between Muhammad Ali and GeorgeForeman in Zaire on Oct. 30, 1974--”The Rumble in the Jungle”--is enshrined asone of the great sports events of the century. It was also a cultural andpolitical happening.Into the capital of Kinshasa flew planeloads of performers foran “African Woodstock,” TV crews, Howard Cosell at the head of an internationalcontingent of sports journalists, celebrity fight groupies likeNorman MailerandGeorge Plimpton, and of course the two principals: Ali, then stillcontroversial because of his decision to be a conscientious objector, andForeman, now huggable and lovable in TV commercials but then seen as fearsomeand forbidding. Advertisement “I'm young, I'm handsome, I'm fast, I'm strong, and I can't bebeat,” Ali told the press. They didn't believe him. Foreman had destroyedGeorge Frazier, who had defeated Ali. Foreman was younger, bigger and stronger,with a punch so powerful, Mailer recalled, “that after he was finished with aheavy punching bag, it had a depression pounded into it.” Ali was 33 andthought to be over the hill. The odds were 7-1 against him. The Zaire that they arrived in was a country much in need offoreign currency and image refurbishment. Under the leadership of Mobutu SeseSeko (“the archetype of a closet sadist,” said Mailer), the former BelgianCongo had became a paranoid police state; the new stadium built to showcase thefight was rumored to hold 1,000 political prisoners in cells in its catacombs.Don King, then at the dawn of his career as a fight promoter,had sold Mobutu on the fight and raised $5 million for each fighter. The “AfricanWoodstock,” featuring such stars as B.B. King,James BrownandMiriam Makeba,was supposed to pay for part of that. For Ali, the fight in Africa was paybacktime for the hammering he'd taken in the American press for his refusal tofight in Vietnam. For Foreman, it was more complicated. So great was thepro-Ali frenzy, Foreman observed, that when he got off the plane the crowdswere surprised to find that he was also a black man. “Why do they hate me somuch?” he wondered. Leon Gast's “When We Were Kings,” which just received an Oscarnomination, is like a time capsule; the original footage has waited all theseyears to be assembled into a film because of legal and financial difficulties.It is a new documentary of a past event, recapturing the electricity generatedby Muhammad Ali in his prime.Spike Lee, who with Mailer and Plimpton providesmodern commentary on the 1974 footage, says young people today do not know howfamous and important Ali was. He is right. “When I fly on an airplane,” Alionce told me, “I look out of the window and I think, I am the only person that*everyone* down there knows about.” It is not bragging if you are only tellingthe truth. Advertisement The original film apparently started as a concert documentary.Then the fight was delayed because of a cut to Foreman's eye. The concert wentahead as scheduled, and then the fighters, their entourages and the presssettled down to wait for the main event. No one really thought Ali had achance--perhaps not even Ali, who seems reflective and withdrawn in a fewprivate moments, although in public he predicted victory. How could he have a chance, really? Hadn't he lost his primeyears as a fighter after he refused to fight in Vietnam? (“I ain't got noquarrel with the Viet Cong,” he explained.) Wasn't Foreman bigger, faster,stronger, younger? History records Ali's famous strategy, the “Rope-a-Dope”defense, in which he simply outwaited Foreman, absorbing incalculablepunishment until, in the eighth round, Foreman was exhausted and Ali explodedwith a series of rights to the head, finishing him. Was this, however, really a strategy at all? “When We Were Kings”gives the impression that Ali got nowhere in the first round and adopted theRope-a-Dope almost by default. Perhaps he knew, or hoped, that he was in bettercondition than Foreman, and could outlast him if he simply stayed on his feet.It is certain that hardly anyone in Zaire that night, not even his steadfastsupporter Cosell, thought that Ali could win; the upset became an enduring partof his myth. “When We Were Kings” captures Ali's public persona and privateresolve. As heavyweight champion during the Vietnam War, he could easily havearrived at an accommodation with the military, touring bases in lieu of combatduty. Although he was called a coward and a draft dodger, surely ittook more courage to follow the path he chose. And yet it is remarkable howebullient, how joyful, he remained even after the price he paid; how he iswilling to be a clown and a poet as well as a fighter and an activist. Seeing the film today inspires poignant feelings; we contrastyounger Ali with the ailing and aging legend, and reflect that this fight musthave contributed to the damage that slowed him down. It is also fascinating tocontrast the young Foreman with today's much-loved figure; he, too, has grownand mellowed. When the movie was made all of those developments were stillahead; there is a palpable tension, as the two men step into the ring, that isnot lessened because we know the outcome. Advertisement