A burning at the stake, an afternoon in the rack,headscrews, a douche with boiling water, nails into hands, induced vomiting,ripped tongues, dead babies, human target practice, possession by devils, rape,transvestism, nude orgies in the nunnery. Put them all together and they spellCommitted Art--because these are modern times and I certainly hope none of usis opposed to truth. Now truth, as I've explained before, is what's real. If it isn't real, it isn'ttrue, which is why a stone is better than a dream. If it isn't reality, whoneeds it? Or could lay hands on it, anyway? And everything on the list abovereally happened, yes it did. All the events and persons depicted in TheDevils are intended to be confused with actual events and persons. How doI know?Ken Russelltells me so. Advertisement And so I stood in line the other night, my shoulders hunched against a nastywind off Lake Michigan, waiting to get into the Cinema Theater so that I, too,could ascertain that unspeakable atrocities had occurred in the seventeenthcentury. I didn't want to be the only member of my generation unaware of theterrible events of 1634, a year that will live in infamy. Like everyone who'scommitted, I found it my duty to bear witness against the moral outrages or, ifnot my time, that at least somebody's time. I mean, you can't just sit around. And Ken Russell has really done it this time. He has stripped the lid of respectabilityoff the Ursuline convent in Louden, France. He has exposed Cardinal Richelieuas a political schemer. He has destroyed our illusions about Louis XIII. We arefilled with righteous indignation a we bear witness to the violation of thehelpless nuns; it is all the more terrible because, as Russell fearlesslyreveals, all the nuns, without exception, were young and stacked. It is about time that someone had the courage to tell it like it was aboutLoudon, a seemingly respectable provincial town beneath the facade of whichseethed simmering intrigues, unholy alliances, greed, fear, lust, avarice,sacrilege, and nausea. The story has gone untold for too long. Aldous Huxleywrote a book about it, and John Whiting wrote a play about it, but only KenRussell has made a movie about it. And make no mistake. The Devils has a message for our time. For welearn from the mistakes of the past. We live in a time of violence, and it isonly by looking in the mouth of the Devil that we can examine his teeth. In atime when our nation is responsible for violence on a global scale, it is onlyby bearing witness to violence on a personal scale that we can bring the warhome. I don't know about anyone else, but frankly, I left the Cinema Theater feelinglike a new, a different, and, yes, a better person. The poisons of ourpolitical system had been drained from me. I entered the theater as anunwitting participant in the atrocities of our time. But believe me, that's allbehind me now. It took courage for me to go see The Devils, just like ittook courage for Ken Russell to make it. Advertisement And it took courage for all those folks to congregate in the lobby and loungeof the Cinema Theater before, during, and after the performance. They wereordinary people--kids, students, young folks mostly--you might find living nextdoor. And yet they had gone out into the night to see for themselves, so thatthe martyrs of Loudon might not go unmourned. Now they spoke quietly among themselves of the atrocities they had witnessed,or hoped to witness soon. Listening to them, I felt we could all sleep a littlesounder from now on. If the movie industry had more hard-nosed,tell-it-like-it-is artists like Ken Russell, Loudon might never happen again.