“Mandela,” a new documentary, nominated for an Oscar this year,charts his life from obscure beginnings to the Nobel Prize. It focuses on hissteadfast vision of a multiracial South Africa where all would live togetherpeacefully. When I spent 1965 as a student at the University of Cape Town, mostpeople, black and white, believed the apartheid system would end in a bloodycivil war. That there was a peaceful, democratic exchange of power is a tributeabove all to Mandela's moral leadership. But that transfer of power also came about because of thecourage and imagination of F. W. de Klerk, the white South African presidentwho freed Mandela from prison, lifted the ban on the ANC and then ran againstMandela in a general election--and lost, as he knew he would. The two sharedthe Nobel Peace Prize in 1993. Advertisement I mention de Klerk because this film essentially writes him outof the story; it so simplifies the transfer of power in South Africa that itplays more like a campaign biography than a documentary. Why did de Klerkarrive at his decision? Civil unrest and international economic sanctionsforced his hand, we are told, and then we see de Klerk informing the SouthAfrican Parliament that his government had reached an irreversible decision tofree Mandela and hold multiracial elections. The actual story of the events leading to the election is morecomplicated and interesting. Yes, South Africa suffered from economicsanctions. But it could have survived for many years before caving in; itforged clandestine trading arrangements with countries ranging from China toIsrael, and its diamonds still found their way onto the fingers of brides allover the world. Civil unrest was widespread, but South Africa had a fearsomearray of police and military forces to counter it. If white South Africa hadbeen adamant, apartheid would still be law. What happened was a political miracle. Mandela's unswervingmoral and political strength coincided with the growing conviction within theruling Nationalist Party (and its secret lodge, the Broderbund, and thequasi-official Dutch Reformed Church) that apartheid was, simply, wrong. Whilede Klerk's predecessor, Pieter W. Botha, pledged eternal white defiance, deKlerk and other younger ministers instituted secret contacts with Mandela, andthe new future of South Africa was hashed out in meetings over a period ofyears. De Klerk, when he became president, wanted to free Mandelaimmediately. Mandela insisted that he be “the last man off” Robben Island; hiscolleagues and fellow political prisoners had to be freed first, and the ANChad to be recognized as a legitimate political party, not a terroristunderground. Mandela, essentially running a government in exile, moved intothe prison warden's house and often made secret trips elsewhere in SouthAfrica. One famous story tells of a hot day when Mandela's government driverstopped outside a store to buy cold soda, and the world's most famous politicalprisoner was left alone in the car. He could have simply walked away. But herealized he was more useful to the cause as a prisoner. Advertisement None of those events are told in “Mandela,” which simplifies thetransfer of power into a fable of black against white; it all but implies thatde Klerk was unwilling to see power change hands. The hope for the new SouthAfrican future lies in multiracialism; its foundation story is a good place tostart. Still, what a fascinating portrait this film paints of Mandela!Named “Nelson” by a teacher who did not like his tribal name, Mandela was oneof nine children of a polygamist father who had four wives (how did Mandelafeel about that? The movie doesn't ask). When his father died, the bright boywas adopted by a chief and prepared to become counselor to the king. He ranaway to Johannesburg in the early 1940s to escape an arranged marriage and hadsoon moved into the Soweto Township home of Walter Sisulu, who with OliverTambo would join him in leading the ANC. Mandela worked hard to support himself while studying law,became a lawyer and was soon a key leader of the ANC. His cause was never “blackpower,” but “one man, one vote.” That led him to Robben Island, and for 13years he did hard labor in a limestone quarry while continuing to lead prisonclasses and discussion groups. The film has many revealing personal touches: his childhoodfear, during a circumcision ceremony, that he would not be as “forthright andstrong” as the other boys. His wry imitation of a teacher repeating, “I am adescendant of the famous Duke of Wellington.” His memories of hunting animalson the veld. His passion for his second wife, Winnie Mandela, in hundreds oftender letters written from prison--and his anguished decision to divorce her.There are amusing glimpses of Mandela guided by personal aides, including amaternal Indian woman who advises him on wardrobe (he feels choked when hewears a tie). “Mandela” delivers a powerful emotional charge in its closingscenes of the Nobel Prize and Mandela's election victory. The new South Africa offers the best hope for a new Africa. Itsengine might be able to pull the train of corrupt regimes to the north, andlead the way to reform. Mandela's South Africa seems to be working, despiteworrisome crime rates. It is one of the most inspiring stories of our time. Butthere is more to it than “Mandela” chooses to tell.