Sooner or later, everyone who loves movies comes to Ozu. He isthe quietest and gentlest of directors, the most humanistic, the most serene.But the emotions that flow through his films are strong and deep, because theyreflect the things we care about the most: Parents and children, marriage or alife lived alone, illness and death, and taking care of one another.Yasujiro Ozuwas born in 1903 and died in 1963, but his filmswere not widely seen outside Japan until the early 1970s, because he wasthought to be “too Japanese.” He is universal; I have never heard more weepingin the audience during any movie than during his “Tokyo Story,” which is aboutchildren who in a subtle way are too busy to pay proper attention during avisit from their parents. Advertisement It is impossible to select Ozu's best film because his work isso much of a piece, and almost always to the same high standard. His storiesusually involve two generations. They are family dramas, without violence.There are few scenes where the characters vent their emotions, and some of themost important decisions are implied, not said. He is wise about the ways webalance our selfishness with the needs of others. For me, “Floating Weeds” (1959) is like a familiar piece ofmusic that I can turn to for reassurance and consolation. It is soatmospheric--so evocative of a quiet fishing village during a hot and muggysummer--that it envelops me. Its characters are like neighbors. It isn't a sadstory; the central character is an actor with a healthy ego, who has tried toarrange his life according to his own liking and finds to his amazement thatother people have wills of their own. He is funny, wrong-headed and finally touching. His name is Komajuro (Ganjiro Nakamura). He leads a travelingacting troupe that performs cut-rate kabuki in the provinces (“floating weeds”is a Japanese term for itinerent actors). His mistress Sumiko, played by thepretty and wiseMachiko Kyo, is loyal to him, as are the other veteran actors,but it's clear that the troupe is failing. As the film opens, we hear theoffscreen putter of an exhausted boat engine. Then we see the troupe on theboat deck, collapsed in the shade, fanning themselves, smoking. On shore, thetroupe members fan out through the town, putting up posters and staging aragtag parade (a little boy grows so excited he must dash away and pee againsta wall). The theater owner gives them cramped living quarters upstairs. Komajuro goes to visit a woman who runs a saki bar. Her name isOyoshi (Haruko Sugimura), and years earlier she bore the actor's son. He is nowa handsome young man named Kiyoshi (Hiroshi Kawaguchi), who works in the postoffice, and has been told that Komajuro is his uncle. The old actor is proud ofhis son, but embarrassed to admit his parentage; he wants to keep the secret.His mistress discovers the secret, is enraged, and sets a trap: She pays apretty young actress (Ayako Wakao) to seduce the youth. The old actor of coursedoesn't want his son involved with a woman of (he well knows) easy virtue. Hisdilemma grows thornier when the two young people fall in love: How can heexercise authority without revealing the truth? Advertisement This material could be told in many ways. It could be a soapopera, a musical, a tragedy. Ozu tells it in a series of everyday events. Heloves his characters too much to crank up the drama into artificial highs andlows. Above all we get a sense of the physical existence of these people, especiallyold Komajuro's physical weariness, as he settles down gratefully in the sakishop and lights a cigarette and looks around, pleased to have a moment forhimself. Ozu's scenes mirror the rhythms of ordinary life. He shows minorcharacters in desultory conversations; we learn much about the troupe from thegossip of the supporting actors. We see a performance before a sparse audience;the actors peer out through the curtain, counting the house and looking forcute girls. The performance desperately needs to be restaged with a fresh eyeand perhaps a more interested cast. Ozu doesn't dart from one plot point to another. He uses hisfamous visual style to allow us to contemplate and inhabit the action. Thecamera is always a little lower than the characters; when they are seated ontatami mats, it is only a few feet from the floor. This brings a kind ofstature to their ordinariness. Between scenes, he often cuts to “pillow shots”--twoor three quiet compositions, showing an architectural detail, a banner in thewind, a tree or the sky. His camera never moves. No pans. No tracking shots. There arenot even any dissolves; just cuts between one composition and the next. This isvery contemplative. We are prompted to look and involve ourselves, instead ofsimply reacting. Ozu is known for violating the traditional rules of visualcomposition. He often composes a conversation so that the characters don't seemto be looking at each other. I think I know why. With alternatingover-the-shoulder shots, the audience is required to identify with the point ofview of one character and then the other. When Ozu shoots them both looking inthe same direction, we are kept outside the conversation; we can regard themobjectively, and leave them their privacy. His shots are direct, but often beautiful. Notice the way hehandles an argument between the old actor and his mistress. The camera does notmove. They are on opposite sides of a narrow street. It is raining in betweenthem. She walks back and forth with a red umbrella. Break this up into dramaticcloseups, and you'd shatter it. The space and rain between them is the visualcounterpoint to their feelings. (And perhaps, passionate as they are, neitherone wants to get wet.) Advertisement The movie's music, by Kojun Saito, is lilting and nostalgic. Forsome reason it always reminds me of the music in “Mr. Hulot's Holiday”; bothsoundtracks evoke the feeling of summer in a village near the sea, where theheat and the quiet have created a kind of dreamy suspension of the rules. Ozu made 54 films, starting with silents in 1927 and continuinguntil “An Autumn Afternoon” the year before he died. He worked with the sameactors and technicians again and again. In “Tokyo Ga,” Wim Wenders'documentary, both his cameramanKazuo Miyagawaand the veteran actorChishu Ryuweep when they remember him. He was a small, quiet, chain-smoking man who neveraimed for an international audience, and who was content to tell domesticstories with small variations. Less than a dozen of his films are available inthe West on video (and only “Floating Weeds” is also on laserdisc). But filmssuch as “Tokyo Story,” “Late Spring,” “Early Spring,” “Early Autumn” and “An AutumnAfternoon” are available, and to look at any Ozu film is to glimpse the whole. “I have formulated my own directing style in my head,” he oncesaid, “proceeding without any unnecessary imitation of others.” By “others” hedid not mean his contemporaries. He meant the entire cinematic language goingback to D.W. Griffith. He fearlessly “crosses the line,” moving his camerathrough 360 degrees so that props on one side of the screen seem to leap to theother side. He violates all the rules about matching eyeline shots. He once had a young assistant who suggested that perhaps heshould shoot conversations so that it seemed to the audience that thecharacters were looking at one another. Ozu agreed to a test. They shot a sceneboth ways, and compared them. “You see?” Ozu said. “No difference!” Ozu was most Japanese in taking similar materials and workingthem again and again in subtly different ways, always in his own style. Likethe Japanese printmakers of earlier centuries, he disliked novelty, andpreferred variations on a theme. When you see his films, you feel in the armsof a serenely confident and caring master. In his stories about people who livefar away, you recognize, in one way or another, everyone you know.