John Waters' “Pink Flamingos” has been restored for its 25thanniversary revival, and with any luck at all that means I won't have to see itagain for another 25 years. If I haven't retired by then, I will. How do you review a movie like this? I am reminded of aninterview I once did with a man who ran a carnival sideshow. His star was ageek, who bit off the heads of live chickens and drank their blood. “He's the best geek in the business,” this man assured me. “What is the difference between a good geek and a bad geek?” Iasked. Advertisement “You wanna examine the chickens?” “Pink Flamingos” was filmedwith genuine geeks, and that is the appeal of the film, to those who find itappealing: What seems to happen in the movie really does happen. That is itsredeeming quality, you might say. If the events in this film were onlysimulated, it would merely be depraved and disgusting. But since they are actually performed by real people, the filmgains a weird kind of documentary stature. There is a temptation to praise thefilm, however grudgingly, just to show you have a strong enough stomach to takeit. It is a temptation I can resist. The plot involves a rivalry between two competing factions forthe title of Filthiest People Alive. In one corner: A transvestite named Divine(who dresses like a combination of showgirl, dominatrix and Bozo); hermentally-ill mother (sits in a crib eating eggs and making messes); her son(likes to involve chickens in his sex life with strange women); and her lover(likes to watch son with strange women and chickens). In the other corner: Mr.and Mrs. Marble, who kidnap hippies, chain them in a dungeon, and force theirbutler to impregnate them so that after they die in childbirth their babies canbe sold to lesbian couples. All the details of these events are shown in the film, includingthe notorious scene in which Divine actually ingests that least appetizingresidue of the canine. And not only do we see genitalia in this movie--they doexercises. “Pink Flamingos” appeals to that part of our psyches in which weare horny teenagers at the county fair with fresh dollar bills in our pockets,and a desire to see the geek show with a bunch of buddies, so that we can bragabout it at school on Monday. (And also because of an intriguing rumor that theBearded Lady proves she is bearded all over.) After the restored version of thefilm has played, director John Waters hosts and narrates a series of out-takes,which (not surprisingly) are not as disgusting as what stayed in the film. Wesee scenes in which Divine cooks the chicken that starred in an earlier scene;Divine receives the ears of Cookie, the character who co-starred in the scenewith her son and the chicken; and Divine, Cotton and her son sing “We Are theFilthiest People Alive” in Pig Latin. Advertisement John Waters is a charming man, whose later films, such as “Polyester”and “Hairspray" (1988), take advantage of his bemused take on pop culture. His earlyfilms, made on infinitesimal budgets and starring his friends, used shock as away to attract audiences, and that is understandable. He jump-started hiscareer, and in the movie business, you do what you gotta do. Waters' talent hasgrown; in this film, which he photographed, the visual style resembles a homemovie, right down to the overuse of the zoom lens. (Amusingly, his zooms revealhe knows how long the characters will speak; he zooms in, stays, and thenstarts zooming out before speech ends, so he can pan to another character andzoom in again.) After the out-takes, Waters shows the original trailer for thefilm, in which, not amazingly, not a single scene from the movie is shown.Instead, the trailer features interviews with people who have just seen “PinkFlamingos,” and are a little dazed by the experience. The trailer cleverlypositions the film as an event: Hey, you may like the movie or hate it, but atleast you'll be able to say you saw it! Then blurbs flash on the screen,including one comparing “Pink Flamingos” to Luis Bunuel's “The Andalusian Dog,”in which a pig's eyeball was sliced. Yes, but the pig was dead, while theaudience for this movie is still alive. Note: I am not giving a star rating to “Pink Flamingos,” becausestars simply seem not to apply. It should be considered not as a film but as afact, or perhaps as an object.