Buster Keatonwas not the Great Stone Face so much as a man whokept his composure in the center of chaos. Other silent actors might mug to geta point across, but Keaton remained observant and collected. That's one reasonhis best movies have aged better than those of his rival,Charlie Chaplin. Heseems like a modern visitor to the world of the silent clowns. Consideran opening sequence in "The General” (1927), his masterpiece about aSouthern railway engineer who has "only two loves in his life” -- hislocomotive and the beautiful Annabelle Lee. Early in the film, Keaton, dressedin his Sunday best, walks to his girl's house. He is unaware that two smallboys are following him, marching in lockstep--and that following them isAnnabelle Lee herself (Marion Mack). Advertisement Hearrives at her door. She watches unobserved. He polishes his shoes on the backsof his pants legs, and then knocks, pauses, looks about, and sees her standingright behind him. This moment would have inspired an overacted double-take frommany other silent comedians. Keaton plays it with his face registering merelyheightened interest. Theygo inside. He sits next to her on the sofa. He becomes aware that the boys havefollowed them in. His face reflects slight unhappiness. He rises, puts on hishat as if to leave and opens the door, displaying such courtesy you would thinkthe boys were his guests. The boys walk out and he closes the door on them. Heis not a man playing for laughs, but a man absorbed in a call on the mostimportant person in his life. That's why it's funny. That's also why themovie's most famous shot works--the one where, rejected by his girl, he sitsdisconsolately on the drive-rod of the big engine. As it begins to move, itlifts him up and down, but he does not notice, because he thinks only ofAnnabelle Lee. Thisseries of shots establishes his character as a man who takes himself seriously,and that is the note he will sound all through the film. We don't laugh atKeaton, but identify with him. "TheGeneral” is an epic of silent comedy, one of the most expensive films of itstime, including an accurate historical recreation of a Civil War episode,hundreds of extras, dangerous stunt sequences, and an actual locomotive fallingfrom a burning bridge into a gorge far below. It was inspired by a real event;the screenplay was based on the book "The Great Locomotive Chase,” writtenby William Pittenger, the engineer who was involved. Asthe film opens, war has been declared and Johnny Gray (Keaton) has been turneddown by a rebel enlisting officer (he is more valuable as an engineer, althoughnobody explains that to him). “I don't want you to speak to me again until youare in uniform,” Annabelle declares. Time passes. Johnny is the engineer of theGeneral, a Southern locomotive. The train is stolen by Union spies, and Johnnychases it on foot, by sidecar, by bicycle and finally with another locomotive,the Texas. Then the two sides switch trains, and the chase continues inreverse. Annabelle was a passenger on the stolen train, becomes a prisoner ofthe Union troops, is rescued by Johnny and rides with him during the climacticchase scenes that end with the famous shot of the Texas falling into the gorge(where, it is said, its rusted hulk remains to this day). Advertisement Itwould seem logically difficult to have much of a chase involving trains, sincethey must remain on tracks, and so one must forever be behind the otherone--right? Keaton defies logic with one ingenious silent comic sequence afteranother, and it is important to note that he never used a double and did all ofhis own stunts, even very dangerous ones, with a calm acrobatic grace. Thetrain's obvious limitations provide him with ideas. An entire Southern retreatand Northern advance take place unnoticed behind him, while he chops wood. Twosight gags involve his puzzlement when rail cars he thought were behind himsomehow reappear in front of him. He sets up the locations along the way, sothat he can exploit them differently on the way back. One famous sequenceinvolves a cannon on a flat car, which Keaton wants to fire at the other train.He lights the fuse and runs back to the locomotive, only to see that the cannonhas slowly reversed itself and is now pointed straight at him. Oneinspiration builds into another: To shield himself from the cannonball, he runsforward and sits on the cowcatcher of the speeding Texas, with no one at thecontrols and a big railroad tie in his arms. The Union men throw another tieonto the tracks, and Keaton, with perfect aim and timing, knocks the second offby throwing the first. It's flawless and perfect, but consider how risky it isto sit on the front of a locomotive hoping one tie will knock another out ofthe way without either one smashing your brains out. Betweenchase scenes, he blunders into a house where the Northern generals are planningtheir strategy, and rescues Annabelle Lee--but not before Keaton creates aperfect little cinematic joke. Heis hiding under the dining table as the Northerners confer. One of them burns ahole in the tablecloth with his cigar. Annabelle Lee is brought into the room,and we see Keaton's eye peering through the hole--and then there's a reverseshot of the girl, with Keaton using the hole in the cloth to create a “found”iris shot--one of those shots so beloved of Griffith, in which a circle isdrawn around a key element on the screen. Advertisement “TheGeneral” was voted one of the 10 greatest films of all time in theauthoritative Sight & Sound poll. Who knows if it is even Keaton'sgreatest? Others might choose “Steamboat Bill, Jr.” (1928). His other classicsinclude “Our Hospitality” (1923), “The Navigator” (1924), “Go West” (1925) and “TheCameraman” (1928), in which he played a would-be newsreel photographer wholucks into his career. Bornin 1897, the same year as the cinema, he grew up in a vaudeville family. Aspart of the act, he was literally thrown around the stage; like W.C. Fields, helearned his physical skills in a painful childhood apprenticeship. He startedin films with Fatty Arbuckle in 1917 and directed his first shorts in 1920. Inless than a decade, from 1920 to 1928, he created a body of work that standsbeside Chaplin's (some would say above it), and he did it with fewer resourcesbecause he was never as popular or well-funded as the Little Tramp. Thenthe talkies came in, he made an ill-advised deal with MGM that ended hisartistic independence, and the rest of his life was a long second act--so longthat in the 1940s he was reduced to doing a live half-hour TV show in LosAngeles. But it was also long enough that his genius was rediscovered, and hemade a crucial late work, Samuel Beckett's “Film” (1965), and was hailed with aretrospective at Venice shortly before his death in 1966. TodayI look at Keaton's works more often than any other silent films. They have sucha graceful perfection, such a meshing of story, character and episode, thatthey unfold like music. Although they're filled with gags, you can rarely catchKeaton writing a scene around a gag; instead, the laughs emerge from thesituation; he was “the still, small, suffering center of the hysteria ofslapstick,” wrote the critic Karen Jaehne. And in an age when special effectswere in their infancy, and a “stunt” often meant actually doing on the screenwhat you appeared to be doing, Keaton was ambitious and fearless. He had ahouse collapse around him. He swung over a waterfall to rescue a woman heloved. He fell from trains. And always he did it in character, playing a solemnand thoughtful man who trusts in his own ingenuity. “Charlie'stramp was a bum with a bum's philosophy,” he once said. “Lovable as he was, hewould steal if he got the chance. My little fellow was a workingman, andhonest.” That describes his characters, and it reflects their creator.