Like a tantalizing mirage, film noir haunts modern filmmakers.Noir is the genre of night, guilt, violence and illicit passion, and no genreis more seductive. But the best noirs were made in the 1940s and 1950s, beforedirectors consciously knew what they were doing (“We called them B movies,”saidRobert Mitchum). Once the French named the genre, once a generation of filmmakerscame along who had seen noirs at cinematheques instead of in flea pits, noircould never again be naive. One of the joys of a great noir like “Detour”(1954) is the feeling that it was made by people who took the story perfectlyseriously. One of the dangers of modern self-conscious noir, as Pauline Kaelwrote in her scathing dismissal of “Body Heat,” is that an actress likeKathleen Turnercomes across “as if she were following the marks on the floormade by the actresses who preceded her.” Advertisement Andyet if bad modern noir can play like a parody, good noir still has the power toseduce. Yes, Lawrence Kasdan's “Body Heat” (1981) is aware of the films thatinspired it--especially Billy Wilder's “Double Indemnity” (1944). But it has apower that transcends its sources. It exploits the personal style of its starsto insinuate itself; Kael is unfair to Turner, who in her debut role played awoman so sexually confident that we can believe her lover (William Hurt) couldbe dazed into doing almost anything for her. The moment we believe that, themovie stops being an exercise and starts working. (I think the moment occurs inthe scene where she leads Hurt by her hand in that manner a man is leastinclined to argue with.) Womenare rarely allowed to be bold and devious in the movies; most directors aremen, and they see women as goals, prizes, enemies, lovers and friends, butrarely as protagonists. Turner's entrance in “Body Heat” announces that she isthe film's center of power. It is a hot, humid night in Florida. Hurt, playinga cocky but lazy lawyer named Ned Racine, is strolling on a pier where anexhausted band is listlessly playing. He is behind the seated audience. We cansee straight down the center aisle to the bandstand. All is dark and red andorange. Suddenly a woman in white stands up, turns around and walks straighttoward him. This is Matty Walker. To see her is to need her. Turnerin her first movie role was an intriguing original. Slender, with hair down toher shoulders, she evoked aspects ofBarbara StanwyckandLauren Bacall. Butthe voice, with its elusive hint of a Latin accent, was challenging. She had “angryeyes,” the critic David Thomson observed. And a slight overbite (latercorrected, I think) gave a playful edge to her challenging dialogue (“You'renot too smart, are you?” she says soon after meeting him. “I like that in aman.”) Hurthad been in one movie before “Body Heat” (Ken Russell's “Altered States” in1980). He was still unfamiliar: a tall, already balding, indolently handsomeman with a certain lazy arrogance to his speech, as if amused by his ownintelligence. “Body Heat” is a movie about a woman who gets a man to commitmurder for her. It is important that the man not be a dummy; he needs to besmart enough to think of the plan himself. One of the brilliant touches ofKasdan's screenplay is the way he makes Ned Racine think he is the initiator ofMatty Walker's plans. Advertisement Fewmovies have done a better job of evoking the weather. Heat, body heat, is aconvention of pornography, where performers routinely complain about how warmthey are (as if lovemaking could cool them off, instead of making them hotter).Although air conditioning was not unknown in South Florida in 1981, thecharacters here are constantly in heat; there is a scene where Ned comes home,takes off his shirt and stands in front of the open refrigerator. The filmopens with an inn burning in the distance (“Somebody's torched it to clear thelot,” Ned says. “Probably one of my clients.”) There are other fires. There isthe use of the color red. There is the sense that heat inflames passion andencourages madness. Inthis heat, Matty seems cool. Early in the film there is a justly famous scenewhere Matty brings Ned home from a bar, allegedly to listen to her wind chimes,and then asks him to leave. He leaves, then returns, and looks through a windownext to her front door. She stands inside, dressed in red, calmly returning hisgaze. He picks up a chair and throws it through the window, and in the nextshot they are embracing. Knowing what we know about Matty, look once again ather expression as she looks back at him. She looks as confident and absorbed asa child who has pushed a button and is waiting for a video game to respond. Kasdan,born in 1949, worked in ad agencies before moving to Hollywood to writescreenplays. His more personal work languished in desk drawers while his firstcredits were two of the biggest blockbusters of all time, “The Empire StrikesBack” and “Raiders of the Lost Ark.”George Lucasacted as executive produceron this directorial debut to reassure Warner Bros. that it would come in ontime and be releasable. It was; David Chute wrote in Film Comment that it was “perhapsthe most stunning debut movie ever” (which raises the question of “CitizenKane,” but never mind). Kasdan's subsequent career has alternated betweenaction pieces written for others (“Return of the Jedi,” aspects of “TheBodyguard”) and quirky, smart films directed by himself (“The AccidentalTourist,” “I Love You To Death,” and the brilliant, overlooked “Grand Canyon”in 1991). Advertisement In“Body Heat,” Kasdan's original screenplay surrounds the characters with good,well-written performances in supporting roles; he creates a real world ofpolice stations, diners, law offices and restaurants, away from which Matty hasseduced Ned into her own twisted scenario. The best supporting work in themovie is byMickey Rourke, in his breakthrough role, as Ned's friend, aprofessional arsonist.Richard Crennais Matty's husband. “He's small, andmean, and weak,” she tells Ned, but when we see him he is not small or weak.Ted Dansonand J.A. Preston are a D.A. and a cop, Ned's friends, who are drawnreluctantly into suspecting him of murder (Danson's sense of timing and nuanceare perfect in a night scene where he essentially briefs his friend Ned on thecase against him). “Kasdanhas modern characters talking jive talk as if they'd been boning up on Chandlernovels,” Kael wrote, “and he doesn't seem to know if he wants laughs or not.”But isn't it almost essential for noir characters to talk in a certainheightened style, and isn't it possible for us to smile in recognition? On thenight they first make love, Ned tells Matty, “Maybe you shouldn't dress likethat.” She says, “This is a blouse and skirt. I don't know what you're talkingabout.” And he says, “You shouldn't wear that body.” Chandleresque? Yes. Worksin this movie? Yes. Andthere is some dialogue that unblinkingly confronts the enormity of the crimethat Ned and Matty are contemplating. In many movies, the killers useself-justification and rationalization to talk themselves into murder. There isa chilling scene in “Body Heat” where Ned flatly tells Matty: “That man isgonna die for no reason but . . . we want him to.” Theplot and its double-crosses are of course part of the pleasure, althoughwatching the film again last night, aware of its secrets, I found the finalpayoff less rewarding than the diabolical setup. The closing scenes areobligatory (and the final beach scene is perfunctory and unconvincing). Thelast scene that works as drama is the one where Ned suggests to Matty that shego get the glasses in the boathouse, and then she pauses on the lawn to tellhim, “Ned, whatever you think--I really do love you.” Doesshe? That's what makes the movie so intriguing. Does he love her, for thatmatter? Or is he swept away by sexual intoxication--body heat? You watch themovie the first time from his point of view, and the second time from hers.Every scene plays two ways. “Body Heat” is good enough to make film noir playlike we hadn't seen it before. Advertisement