Alfred Hitchcock's “Notorious” is the most elegant expression ofthe master's visual style, just as “Vertigo” is the fullest expression of hisobsessions. It contains some of the most effective camera shots in his--oranyone’s--work, and they all lead to the great final passages in which two menfind out how very wrong they both were. Thisis the film, with “Casablanca,” that assuresIngrid Bergman’s immortality. Sheplays a woman whose notorious reputation encourages U.S. agents to recruit herto spy on Nazis in postwar Rio. And that reputation nearly gets her killed,when the man she loves mistrusts her. His misunderstanding is at the center ofa plot in which all of the pieces come together with perfect precision, so thattwo people walk down a staircase to their freedom, and a third person climbssteps to his doom. Advertisement Hitchcockmade the film in 1946, when the war was over but the Cold War was justbeginning. A few months later, he would have made the villains Communists, butas he andBen Hechtworked on the script, Nazis were still uppermost in theirminds. (An opening subtitle says: “Miami, Florida, 3:20 p.m., April 20,1946”--admirably specific, but as unnecessary as the similarly detailedinformation at the beginning of “Psycho.") Thestory stars Bergman as a patriotic American named Alicia Huberman, whose fatheris a convicted Nazi spy. Alicia is known for drinking and apparent promiscuity,and is recruited by an agent named Devlin (Cary Grant) to fly to Rio andinsinuate herself into the household of a spy ring led by Sebastian (ClaudeRains). Sebastian once loved her, and perhaps he still does; Devlin isessentially asking her to share the spy's bed to discover his secrets. And thisshe is willing to do, because by the time he asks her, she is in love--withDevlin. Allof these sexual arrangements are of course handled with the sort of subtledialogue and innuendo that Hollywood used to get around the production code.There is never a moment when improper behavior is actually stated or shown, butthe film leaves no doubt. By the time all of the pieces are in place, weactually feel more sympathy for Sebastian than for Devlin. He may be a spy buthe loves Alicia sincerely, while Devlin may be an American agent but has usedAlicia's love to force her into the arms of another man. Hitchcockwas known for his attention to visual details. He drew storyboards of everyscene before shooting it, and slyly plays against Grant’s star power in thescene introducing Devlin to the movie. At a party the night her father has beenconvicted, Alicia drinks to forget. The camera positions itself behind theseated Devlin, so we see only the back of his head. He anchors the shot as thecamera moves left and right, following the morally ambiguous Alicia as sheflirts, drinks and tries to forget. Advertisement Thereare more famous shots the next morning. Alicia awakens with a hangover, andthere is a gigantic foreground closeup of a glass of Alka-Seltzer (it will bepaired much later in the movie with a huge foreground coffee cup that we knowcontains arsenic). From her point of view, she sees Devlin in the doorway,backlit and upside down. As she sits up, he rotates 180degrees. He suggests aspy deal. She refuses, talking of her plans to take a cruise. He plays a secretrecording that proves she is, after all, patriotic--despite her loose image. Asthe recording begins, she is in shadow. As it continues, she is in bars oflight. As it ends, she is in full light. Hitchcock has choreographed thevisuals so that they precisely reflect what is happening. Thefilm is rich with other elegant shots, the most famous beginning with thecamera on a landing high above the entrance hall of Sebastian’s mansion in Rio.It ends, after one unbroken movement, with a closeup of a key in Alicia'snervously twisting hand. The key will open the wine cellar, where Devlin(posing as a guest) will join Alicia in trying to find Sebastian’s secret. Oneof the bottles contains not wine but a radioactive substance used in bombs. Ofcourse, it could contain anything--maps, codes, diamonds--because it is aMacGuffin (Hitchcock's name for that plot element that everyone is concernedabout, although it hardly matters what it is). TheHecht screenplay is ingenious in playing the two men against one another.Sebastian, played by Rains, is smaller, more elegant, more vulnerable, anddominated by his forbidding mother (Leopoldine Konstantin). Devlin, played byGrant, is tall, physically imposing, crude at times, suspicious where Sebastianis trusting. Both men love her but the wrong man trusts her, and the plot leadsto a moment of inspired ingenuity in which Devlin is able to escort Alicia outof the Nazi mansion in full view of all of the spies, and the circumstances aresuch that nobody can stop him. (There is a point earlier in the film whereDevlin walks up the same staircase, and if you count his steps you will findthat on the way down he and Alicia descend more steps than there actuallyare--Hitchcock's way of prolonging the suspense.) Advertisement ThroughoutHitchcock's career, he devised stories in which elegant women, usually blond,were manipulated into situations of great danger. Hitchcock was the mastermanipulator, with the male actors as his surrogates. “Vertigo” treats thistheme so openly it almost gives the game away. But look how it works in“Notorious,” where Devlin (like the Jimmy Stewart character in “Vertigo”)grooms and trains innocent women to be exactly who he desires her to be, andthen makes her do his bidding. Thegreat erotic moment in “Vertigo” is the one where the man kisses the woman ofhis fantasy, while the room whirls around him. There is a parallel scene in“Notorious,” and it was famous at the time as “the longest kiss in the historyof the movies.” It was not, however, a single kiss, as Tim Dirks points out inhis essay on the film (www.filmsite.org/noto.html). The production code forbadea kiss lasting longer than three seconds, and so Bergman and Grant alternatekissing with dialogue and eyeplay, while never leaving one another's arms. Thesequence begins on a balcony overlooking Rio, encompasses a telephone call anda discussion of the dinner menu, and ends with a parting at the apartment door,taking three minutes in all. The three-second rule led to a better scene; anactual180-second kiss might look like an exercise in slobbering. The choice of Ingrid Bergman for the role was ideal; she subtlycombined the noble and the carnal. Consider “Casablanca” (all of the viewers of“Notorious” would have), in which she lives with a resistance hero but in herheart loves a scruffy bar owner, and yet emerges as an idealistic heroine. In “Notorious,”we never seriously doubt that she is the heroine, but we can understand why theGrant character does. She appears to be a dipsomaniac, and besides, she sleepswith Sebastian. But she does it because she loves Devlin. Devlin has difficultyin loving a woman who would do that; one is reminded of Groucho Marx, whorefused to join any club that would have him as a member. Somany movies have ended in obligatory chases and shoot-outs that the ability towrite a well-crafted third act has almost died out. Among its manyachievements, “Notorious” ends well. Like clockwork, the inevitable events ofthe last 10 minutes take place, and they all lead to the final perfect shot, inwhich another Nazi says to Sebastian, “Alex, will you come in, please? I wishto talk to you.” And Alex goes in, knowing he will never come out alive.