To watch F.W. Murnau's "Nosferatu" (1922) is to seethevampire movie before it had really seen itself. Here is the story of Draculabefore it was buried alive in clichés, jokes, TV skits, cartoons and more than30 other films. The film is in awe of its material. It seems to really believein vampires.Max Schreck, who plays the vampire, avoids most of thetheatrical touches that would distract from all the later performances, from BelaLugosi toChristopher LeetoFrank LangellatoGary Oldman. The vampire shouldcome across not like a flamboyant actor but like a man suffering from a dreadcurse. Schreck plays the count more like an animal than a human being; the artdirection by Murnau's collaborator, Albin Grau, gives him bat ears, clawlikenails and fangs that are in the middle of his mouth like a rodent’s, instead ofon the sides like on a Halloween mask. Advertisement Murnau'ssilent film was based on theBram Stokernovel, but the title and characternames were changed because Stoker's widow charged, not unreasonably, that herhusband's estate was being ripped off. Ironically, in the long run Murnau wasthe making of Stoker, because “Nosferatu” inspired dozens of other Draculafilms, none of them as artistic or unforgettable, although Werner Herzog's 1979version withKlaus Kinskicomes closest. “Nosferatu”is a better title, anyway, than “Dracula.” Say “Dracula” and you smile. Say“Nosferatu” and you've eaten a lemon. Murnau's story begins in Bremen, Germany.Knock (Alexander Granach), a simian little real estate agent, assigns hisemployee Hutter (Gustav von Wangenheim) to visit the remote castle of CountOrlok, who wishes to buy a house in town--"a deserted one." A clue tothe story can be found in Orlok's letter, which we see over Knock's shoulder.It is written in occult symbols; since Knock can read it, we should not besurprised later when he calls Orlok “Master.” DuringHutter's trip to Orlok's lair in the Carpathian Mountains, Murnau's imagesforetell doom. In an inn, all of the customers fall silent when Hutter mentionsOrlok's name. Outside, horses bolt and run, and a hyena snarls before slinkingaway. At Hutter's bedside, he finds a book that explains vampire lore: Theymust sleep, he learns, in earth from the graveyards of the Black Death. Hutter'shired coach refuses to take him onto Orlok's estate. The count sends his owncoach, which travels in fast-motion, as does his servant, who scurries like arat. Hutter is still laughing at warnings of vampirism, but his laugh fades atdinner, when he cuts himself with a breadknife and the count seems unhealthilyinterested in “Blood--your beautiful blood!” Twoof the key sequences in the film now follow; both are montages in whichsimultaneous events are intercut. That's a routine technique today, but Murnauis credited with helping to introduce the montage, and here we see Orlokadvancing on Hutter while, in Bremen, his wife, Ellen, sleepwalks and cries outa warning that causes the vampire to turn away. (He advances and retreatsthrough an archway shaped to frame his bat-like head.) Later, afterHutter realizes his danger, he escapes from the castle and races back to Bremenby coach, while Orlok travels by sea, and Murnau intercuts the coach withshipboard events and Ellen restlessly waiting. Advertisement Theshots on the ship are the ones everyone remembers. The cargo is a stack ofcoffins, all filled with earth (from the nourishing graveyards of the plague).Crew members sicken and die. A brave mate goes below with a hatchet to open acoffin, and rats tumble out. Then Count Orlok rises straight up, stiff andeerie, from one of the coffins, in a shot that was as frightening and famous inits time as the rotating head in “The Exorcist.” The ship arrives in port withits crew dead, and the hatch opens by itself. Murnaunow inserts scenes with little direct connection to the story, exceptsymbolically. One involves a scientist who gives a lecture on thevenus flytrap,“the vampire of the vegetable kingdom.” Then Knock, in a jail cell, watches incloseup as a spider devours its prey. Why cannot man likewise be a vampire?Knock senses his Master has arrived, escapes, and scurries about the town witha coffin on his back. As fear of the plague spreads, “the town was looking fora scapegoat,” the titles say, and Knock creeps about on rooftops and is stoned,while the street is filled with dark processions of the coffins of the newlydead. EllenHutter learns that the only way to stop a vampire is for a good woman todistract him so that he stays out past the first cock's crow. Her sacrifice notonly saves the city but also reminds us of the buried sexuality in the Draculastory. Bram Stoker wrote with ironclad 19th century Victorian values, inspiringno end of analysis from readers who wonder if the buried message of Draculamight be that unlicensed sex is dangerous to society. The Victorians fearedvenereal disease the way we fear AIDS, and vampirism may be a metaphor; thepredator vampire lives without a mate, stalking his victims or seducing themwith promises of bliss--like a rapist, or a pickup artist. The cure forvampirism is obviously not a stake through the heart, but nuclear families andbourgeois values. Advertisement IsMurnau's “Nosferatu” scary in the modern sense? Not for me. I admire it morefor its artistry and ideas, its atmosphere and images, than for its ability tomanipulate my emotions like a skillful modern horror film. It knows none of thelater tricks of the trade, like sudden threats that pop in from the side of thescreen. But “Nosferatu” remains effective: It doesn’t scare us, but it hauntsus. It shows not that vampires can jump out of shadows, but that evil can growthere, nourished on death. Ina sense, Murnau's film is about all of the things we worry about at 3 in themorning--cancer, war, disease, madness. It suggests these dark fears in thevery style of its visuals. Much of the film is shot in shadow. The corners ofthe screen are used more than is ordinary; characters lurk or cower there, andit's a rule of composition that tension is created when the subject of a shotis removed from the center of the frame. Murnau's special effects add to thedisquieting atmosphere: the fast motion of Orlok's servant, the disappearanceof the phantom coach, the manifestation of the count out of thin air, the useof a photographic negative to give us white trees against a black sky. Murnau(1888-1931) made 22 films but is known mostly for three masterpieces:“Nosferatu”; “The Last Laugh” (1924), withEmil Janningsas a hotel doormandevastated by the loss of his job, and “Sunrise” (1927), which wonJanet Gaynoran Oscar for her work as a woman whose husband considers murdering her. Theworldwide success of “Nosferatu” and “The Last Laugh” won Murnau a Hollywoodcontract with Fox, and he moved to America in 1926. His last film was “Tabu”(1931); he was killed in a car crash on the Pacific Coast Highway just beforeits premiere, his promising career cut short at 43. Advertisement Ifhe had lived, the rest of his career would have been spent making sound films.He probably would have made some great ones. But with a silent like “The LastLaugh,” he famously did not require a single title card to tell his story. And“Nosferatu” is more effective for being silent. It is commonplace to say thatsilent films are more “dreamlike,” but what does that mean? In “Nosferatu,” itmeans that the characters are confronted with alarming images and denied thefreedom to talk them away. There is no repartee in nightmares. Human speechdissipates the shadows and makes a room seem normal. Those things that liveonly at night do not need to talk, for their victims are asleep, waiting.