"What kind of town is this?” Wyatt Earp asks on his firstnight in Tombstone. “A man can't get a shave without gettin' his head blowedoff.” He gets up out of the newfangled barber's chair at the Bon Ton TonsorialParlor and climbs through the second-story window of a saloon, his face stillhalf lathered, to konk a gun-toting drunk on the head and drag him out by theheels. Earp(Henry Fonda) already knows what kind of town it is. In the opening scenes ofJohn Ford's greatest Western, “My Darling Clementine” (1946), he and hisbrothers are driving cattle east to Kansas. Wyatt, Virgil and Morgan leavetheir kid brother James in charge of the herd and go into town for a shave anda beer. As they ride down the main street of Tombstone, under a vast andlowering evening sky, gunshots and raucous laughter are heard in the saloons,and we don't have to ask why the town has the biggest graveyard west of theRockies. Advertisement Ford'sstory reenacts the central morality play of the Western. Wyatt Earp becomes thetown's new marshal, there's a showdown between law and anarchy, the law winsand the last shot features the new schoolmarm--who represents the arrival ofcivilization. Most Westerns put the emphasis on the showdown. “My DarlingClementine” builds up to the legendary gunfight at the OK Corral, but it ismore about everyday things--haircuts, romance, friendship, poker and illness. Atthe center is Henry Fonda's performance as Wyatt Earp. He's usually shown as aman of action, but Fonda makes him the new-style Westerner, who stands up whena woman comes into the room and knows how to carve a chicken and dance a reel.Like a teenager, he sits in a chair on the veranda of his office, tilts back tobalance on the back legs and pushes off against a post with one boot and thenthe other. He's thinking of Clementine, and Fonda shows his happiness with bodylanguage. Earphas accepted the marshal's badge because when he and his brothers returned totheir herd, they found the cattle rustled and James dead. There is every reasonto believe the crime was committed by Old Man Clanton (Walter Brennan) and his “boys”(grown, bearded and mean). An early scene ends with Clanton baring his teethlike an animal showing its fangs. Earp buries James in a touching scene. (“Youdidn't get much of a chance, did you, James?”) Then, instead of riding intotown and shooting the Clantons, he tells the mayor he'll become the newmarshal. He wants revenge, but legally. Themost important relationship is between Earp and Doc Holliday (Victor Mature),the gambler who runs Tombstone but is dying of tuberculosis. They are naturalenemies, but a quiet, unspoken regard grows up between the two men, maybebecause Earp senses the sadness at Holliday's core. Holliday's rented room hashis medical diploma on the wall and his doctor's bag beneath it, but he doesn'tpractice anymore. Something went wrong back East, and now he gambles for aliving, and drinks himself into oblivion. His lover is a prostitute, Chihuahua(Linda Darnell), and he talks about leaving for Mexico with her. But as hecoughs up blood, he knows what his prognosis is. Advertisement Themarshal's first showdown with Holliday is a classic Ford scene. The saloongrows quiet when Doc walks in, and the bar clears when he walks up to it. Hetells Earp, “Draw!” Earp says he can't--doesn't have a gun. Doc calls for agun, and a man down the bar slides him one. Earp looks at the gun, and says, “BrotherMorg's gun. The other one, the good-lookin' fellow--that's my brother, Virg.”Doc registers this information and returns his own gun to its holster. Herealizes Earp's brothers have the drop on him. “Howdy,” says Doc. “Have adrink.” TwiceDoc tells someone to get out of town, and twice Earp reminds him that's themarshal's job. Although the Clantons are the first order of business, Doc andEarp seem headed for a showdown. Yet they have a scene together that is one ofthe strangest and most beautiful in all of John Ford's work. A British actor(Alan Mowbray) has come to town to put on a play, and when he doesn't show upat the theater, Earp and Holliday find him in the saloon, on top of a table,being tormented by the Clantons. The actor begins Hamlet's famous soliloquy,but is too drunk and frightened to continue. Doc Holliday, from memory,completes the speech, and could be speaking of himself: “ ... but that thedread of something after death, the undiscovered country from whose bourn notraveler returns, puzzles the will ... .” Thegentlest moments in the movie involve Earp's feelings for Clementine (CathyDowns), who arrives on the stage from the East, looking for “Dr. John Holliday.”She is the girl Doc left behind. Earp, sitting outside the hotel, rises quicklyto his feet as she gets out of the stage, and his movements show that he's inawe of this graceful vision. Clementine has been seeking Doc all over the West,we learn, and wants to bring him home. Doc tells her to get out of town. AndChihuahua monitors the situation jealously. Advertisement Clementineis packed to go the next morning when the marshal, awkward and shy, asks her tojoin him at the church service and dance. They walk in stately procession downthe covered boardwalk, while Ford's favorite hymn plays: “Shall We Gather atthe River?” When the fiddler strikes up, Wyatt and Clementine dance--he clumsybut enthusiastic, and with great joy. This dance is the turning point of themovie, and marks the end of the Old West. There are still shots to be fired,but civilization has arrived. Thelegendary gunfight at the OK Corral has been the subject of many films,including “Frontier Marshal” (1939), “Gunfight at the O.K. Corral” (1957), “Tombstone”(1993, with Val Kilmer's brilliant performance as Doc) and “Wyatt Earp” (1994).Usually the gunfight is the centerpiece of the film. Here it plays more likethe dispatch of unfinished business; Ford doesn't linger over the violence. Thereis the quiet tenseness in the marshal's office as Earp prepares to face theClantons, who've shouted their challenge that they'd be waiting for him at thecorral. Earp's brothers are with him, because this is “family business.” Earpturns down other volunteers, but when Doc turns up, he lets him take part,because Doc has family business, too (one of the Clanton boys has killedChihuahua). Under the merciless clear sky of a desert dawn, in silence exceptfor far-off horse whinnies and dog barks, the men walk down the street and takecare of business. JohnFord (1895-1973) was, many believe, the greatest of all American directors.Certainly he did more than any other to document the passages of Americanhistory. For him, a Western was not quite such a “period film” as it would befor later directors. He shot on location in the desert and prairie, his castand crew living as if they were on a cattle drive, eating out of thechuckwagon, sleeping in tents. He filmed “My Darling Clementine” in his belovedMonument Valley, on the Arizona-Utah border. Advertisement Hemade dozens of silent Westerns, met the real Wyatt Earp on the set of a movieand heard the story of the OK Corral directly from him (even so, history tellsa story much different from this film). Ford worked repeatedly with the sameactors (his “stock company”) and it is interesting that he chose Fonda ratherthanJohn Wayne, his other favorite, for Wyatt Earp. Maybe he saw Wayne as theembodiment of the Old West, and the gentler Fonda as one of the new men whowould tame the wilderness. “MyDarling Clementine” must be one of the sweetest and most good-hearted of allWesterns. The giveaway is the title, which is not about Wyatt or Doc or thegunfight, but about Clementine, certainly the most important thing to happen toMarshal Earp during the story. There is a moment, soon after she arrives, whenEarp gets a haircut and a quick spray of perfume at the Bon Ton TonsorialParlor. Clem stands close to him and says she loves “the scent of the desertflowers.” “That's me,” says Earp. “Barber.”