The legend of Anastasia would seem like unlikely inspiration foran animated musical, but “Anastasia” picks and chooses cleverly, skippingblithely past the entire Russian Revolution but lingering on mad monks, greengoblins, storms at sea, train wrecks and youthful romance. The result isentertaining and sometimes exciting--a promising launch for Fox's new animationstudio, which has declared war on Disney.The movie's based loosely on the same speculative story as the1956 feature film starringIngrid Bergman; it assumes that when Russia's rulingRomanov family was murdered in the upheaval of revolution, one child escapedthe carnage and survived to make a valid claim for the throne. This wasAnastasia (voice byMeg Ryan), granddaughter of the Dowager Empress Marie(Angela Lansbury), who herself escaped to Paris and now wearily rejects oneimposter after another. Advertisement Young Anastasia is seen wrapped in the warm bosom of her family;then disaster strikes, and she spends years in a cruel orphanage, losing all memoryof her earlier days. Then as a lithe and spirited teenager, she falls into theclutches of two con men named Dimitri (John Cusack) and Vladimir (KelseyGrammer). They both worked in the royal court and have insider knowledge; theirscheme is to tutor an imposter until she can fool the Dowager Empress. Theirony, which the movie makes much of, is that this impostor is, in fact, thereal thing. “Anastasia” tells this story within what has become the almostrigid formula of the modern animated feature: The heroine and the hero bothhave sidekicks, the villain commands nasty little minions, and romance blooms,but doesn't get too soppy. Much depends on how colorful the villain is, and the mad monkRasputin (Christopher Lloyd) is one of the best cartoon villains in a longtime. The real Rasputin became infamous for taking so long to die--he wasalmost unkillable--and in this movie version he likewise lingers between lifeand death. His spirit burns on, but his body parts have a disconcerting habitof falling off. His little sidekick Bartok, an albino bat voiced by HankAzaria, tirelessly screws missing limbs back into place. Anastasia has a friend, too: Her little dog Pooka, whofaithfully tags along. Indeed, every important character is assigned asidekick; Dimitri has Vladimir, and the Dowager Empress has her faithfullady-in-waiting, Sophie (Bernadette Peters). By the movie's end, Dimitri winsAnastasia, Vladimir wins Sophie, and I guess we can be relieved that thefilmmakers spared us the Bartok-Pooka nuptials. The film was produced and directed by former Disney artists DonBluth andGary Goldman, whose credits include “The Land Before Time” and “AnAmerican Tail.” Here they consciously include the three key ingredients in thebig Disney hits: action, romance and music. Only the songs disappoint. (Whydidn't they do the obvious, and license the title song from the 1956 film?)There are three big action sequences: A storm at sea, as Anastasia sleepwalksperilously close to the briny deep; a runaway locomotive and a wreck, asRasputin's little green goblins sabotage the train carrying Anastasia to Paris,and a final showdown between Rasputin and the forces of good. The action hereis alive and energetic, and the train sequence is genuinely thrilling. Advertisement What won me over most of all, however, was the quality of thestory: It's clearly set up, so that even younger viewers can understandAnastasia's fate and her hopes. (“I'm not exactly Grand Duchess material here,”she says, “a skinny little nobody with no past and no future.”) It gets acouple of neat twists out of the idea of making Anastasia a fraud who isn't afraud. And the Dowager Empress, as played by Lansbury, creates real pathos withher weariness: How many more frauds must she endure? Animation is the road lesstraveled for the movies. Although it offers total freedom over theinconveniences of space, time and gravity, it's so tricky and difficult thatanimated features have always been rare--and Disney has always known how tomake them best. With “Anastasia,” there's another team on the field.