If I were asked to name the single scene in all of romanticcomedy that was sexiest and funniest at the same time, I would advise beginningat six seconds past the 20-minute mark inPreston Sturges' "The Lady Eve,”and watching asBarbara Stanwycktoys with Henry Fonda's hair in an unbrokenshot that lasts three minutes and 51 seconds. Stanwyck plays an adventuress who has lured a rich but unworldlyyoung bachelor to her cabin on an ocean liner, and is skillfully tantalizinghim. She reclines on a chaise. He has landed on the floor next to her."Hold me tight!” she says, holding him tight -- allegedly because she hasbeen frightened by a snake. Now begins the unbroken shot. Her right arm cradleshis head, and as she talks she toys with his earlobe and runs her fingersthrough his hair. She teases, kids and flirts with him, and he remains almostparalyzed with shyness and self-consciousness. And at some point during thisprocess, she falls for him. Advertisement Thatisn't part of her plan. Stanwyck plays Jean Harrington, a con woman who travelsfirst class with her father and their valet, fleecing rich travelers in cardgames and whatever else comes along. She sets her sights on Charles Pike(Fonda), heir to a brewery fortune, as he comes aboard after a snake-huntingexpedition in South America. She drops an apple on his pith helmet as he climbsthe rope ladder to the ship, and is reprimanded by her father: "Don't bevulgar, Jean. Let us be crooked, but never common.” Whatis delightful about Stanwyck's performance is how she has it both ways. She isa crook, and yet can be trusted. A seductress, and yet a pushover for romance.A gold digger, and yet she wants nothing from him. And he is a naive innocentwho knows only that her perfume smells mighty good to someone who has been"up the Amazon” for a year. She falls for him so quickly and so thoroughlythat she's even frank about her methods; just before he kisses her in themoonlight in the ship's bow, she tells him, "They say a moonlit deck's awoman's business office.” HowardHawks once said that the flaw in his "Bringing Up Baby,” one of the greatscrewball comedies, is that everyone in it is a screwball; there's no baselineof sanity to measure the characters against. "The Lady Eve” (1941), whichin its way is just as preposterous as the Hawks picture, doesn't make thatmistake. Fonda is the rock. He remains vulnerable and sincere throughout thepicture because, like all young men who are truly and badly in love, hisconsciousness is focused on one thing: the void in his heart that only she canfill. Advertisement Thatfrees Stanwyck for one of her greatest performances, a flight of romance andcomedy so graceful and effortless that she is somehow able to play differentnotes at the same time. The movie establishes Jean Harrington in an inspiredearly scene, as she joins her father, a phony colonel, in the ship's lounge.Using the mirror in her compact, she spies on Charlie Pike as he sits alone andreads a book (its title, "Are Snakes Necessary?,” is a sly addition to themovie's phallic imagery). Sturges cuts to the view reflected in the mirror, andJean provides a tart voice-over narration for her father, describing theattempts of every woman in the room to catch the handsome bachelor's eye. Then,as Charlie leaves the room, she simply sticks out a foot and trips him; as hepicks himself up she blames him for breaking off the heel of her shoe. Heescorts her to her stateroom and she tells him to pick out a new pair of shoesand put them on her feet. "You'll have to kneel down,” she says, andswings her nyloned leg almost in his face. His vision blurs with passion, andSturges comes within an inch of violating the production code, the way her toeswings dangerously close. Poor Charlie falls for her, soon finds himselfplaying poker with Jean and her father, wins $600 as part of their setup, andthen undergoes the exquisite torment of her ear-and-hair caress. Theplot unfolds as screwball invention, except that after boy meets girl and boyloses girl, boy wins what he only thinks is another girl. Jean, hurt by the wayhe has not trusted her, gets herself invited to a dinner at his father'spalatial mansion by posing as "Lady Eve Sidwich.” Charlie is struck by howmuch Eve resembles Jean. "It's the same dame!” says his faithful valetMuggsy (William Demarest). But Charlie can't believe it, and follows hermoon-eyed through a series of pratfalls. Advertisement Sturgessays in his memoirs that the studios were always trying to get him to limit hispratfalls, and at the sneak previews he crossed his fingers as Demarest fellinto the bushes and Fonda tripped over a couch and a curtain before getting aroast beef in his lap. But they all worked. "That couch has been there 15years and nobody ever fell over it before!” exclaims Charlie's father. LadyEve: "Oh, well -- now the ice is broken!” BarbaraStanwyck (1907-90) was known primarily as a gifted dramatic actress("Golden Boy,” "Stella Dallas,” "Double Indemnity”). PrestonSturges (1898-1959), who in the early 1940s made one inspired comedy afteranother ("Sullivan's Travels,” "Palm Beach Story”) and scarcelyseemed able to step wrong, had promised her a comic role, and gave her one forthe ages. Althoughthe movie would be inconceivable without Fonda, "The Lady Eve” is allStanwyck's; the love, the hurt and the anger of her character provide themotivation for nearly every scene, and what is surprising is how much genuinefeeling she finds in the comedy. Watch her eyes as she regards Fonda, in all oftheir quiet scenes together, and you will see a woman who is amused by a man'sboyish shyness and yet aroused by his physical presence. At first she loves thegame of seduction, and you can sense her enjoyment of her own powers. Then sheis somehow caught up in her own seduction. There has rarely been a woman in amovie who more convincingly desired a man. Herfather is played byCharles Coburn(1877-1961), a valuable character actor fromthe 1930s through the 1950s, who in appearance was sort of a toned-down CharlesLaughton. Here Coburn and Sturges make a crucial right decision: "Colonel”Harrington is not blustering and broad, but a smart and perceptive man, notloud, who loves his daughter. Theirrelationship is established in a quiet scene the morning after Jean first meetsCharlie. She is in her stateroom, still in bed. Her father enters in dressinggown, sits on her bed, and plays with a deck of cards while questioning her. Atthis point we have a good notion, but no hard evidence, that he is a fraud."What are you doing?” she asks. "Dealing fives,” he says. She wantsto see. He shows her four aces, puts them on top of the deck, and then dealsfour hands without dealing a single ace -- dealing the fifth card every time.(It's hard to be sure, but here and elsewhere it looks as if Coburn himself ishandling the cards.) Advertisement Thescene establishes him as a shark, makes it clear they're confederates, andunderlines, by the way she calls him "Harry,” that they're two adults andnot locked into a narrow daddy-daughter relationship. The scene also sets upthe hilarious scene that night, where the Colonel tries to cheat Charlie atcards, and Jean outcheats him to rescue the man she loves. Amovie like "The Lady Eve” is so hard to make that you can't make it at allunless you find a way to make it seem effortless. Preston Sturges does a kindof breathless balancing act here, involving romance, deception and physicalcomedy. Consider the scenes where Jean masquerades as the Lady Eve. She throwsCharlie off the scent by her very lack of a disguise: Brazenly entering hishouse looking exactly like herself, she adds a British accent and dares him tocall her bluff. She knows he cannot, and the masquerade sets up the two finallines of the film, which I will not mention here -- except to say that for mymoney, either one is equal to the classic line "nobody's perfect!” at theend of "Some Like It Hot.”