If only one of Charles Chaplin's films could be preserved, “CityLights” (1931) would come the closest to representing all the different notesof his genius. It contains the slapstick, the pathos, the pantomime, theeffortless physical coordination, the melodrama, the bawdiness, the grace, and,of course, the Little Tramp--the character said, at one time, to be the mostfamous image on earth. Whenhe made it, three years into the era of sound, Chaplin must have known that “CityLights” might be his last silent film; he considered making a talkie, butdecided against it, and although the film has a full musical score (composed byChaplin) and sound effects, it has no speech. Audiences at the time would haveappreciated his opening in-joke; the film begins with political speeches, butwhat emerges from the mouths of the speakers are unintelligiblesquawks--Chaplin's dig at dialogue. When he made “Modern Times” five yearslater, Chaplin allowed speech onto the soundtrack, but once again the Trampremained silent except for some gibberish. Advertisement Therewas perfect logic here: Speech was not how the Tramp really expressed himself.In most silent films there's the illusion that the characters are speaking,even though we can't hear them. Buster Keaton's characters, for example, areclearly talkative. But the Tramp is more of a mime, a person for whom bodylanguage serves as speech. He exists somehow on a different plane than theother characters; he stands outside their lives and realities, is judged on hisappearance, is homeless and without true friends or family, and interacts withthe world mostly through his actions. Although he can sometimes be seen tospeak, he doesn't need to; unlike most of the characters in silent films, hecould have existed comfortably in a silent world. In“Modern Times,” as Walter Kerr points out in his invaluable book The SilentClowns, the Tramp is constantly trying to get back into jail, where he feelssafe and secure. His most frequent refuge is a paddy wagon. In “City Lights,”his only friendships are with people who don't or can't see him: with a drunkenmillionaire who doesn't recognize him when he sobers up, and with a blindflower girl. His shabby appearance sets him apart and cues people to avoid andstereotype him; a tramp is not ... one of us. Unlike the Keaton characters, whohave jobs and participate eagerly in society, the Tramp is an outcast, anonlooker, a loner. That'swhat makes his relationship with the flower girl (Virginia Cherrill) so poignant;does she accept and treasure him only because she can't see what he looks like?(Her grandmother, who would no doubt warn her away from him, is never at homewhen the Tramp calls.) The last scene of “City Lights” is justly famous as oneof the great emotional moments in the movies; the girl, whose sight has beenrestored by an operation paid for by the Tramp, now sees him as a bum--butsmiles at him anyway, and gives him a rose and some money, and then, touchinghis hands, recognizes them. “You?” she asks on the title card. He nods, triesto smile, and asks, “You can see now?” “Yes,” she says, “I can see now.” Shesees, and yet still smiles at him, and accepts him. The Tramp guessedcorrectly: She has a good heart, and is able to accept him as himself. Advertisement Chaplinand the other silent filmmakers knew no national boundaries. Their films wenteverywhere without regard for language, and talkies were like the Tower ofBabel, building walls between nations. I witnessed the universality ofChaplin's art in one of my most treasured experiences as a moviegoer, in 1972,in Venice, where all of Chaplin's films were shown at the film festival. Onenight the Piazza San Marco was darkened, and “City Lights” was shown on a vastscreen. When the flower girl recognized the Tramp, I heard much snuffling andblowing of noses around me; there wasn't a dry eye in the piazza. Then completedarkness fell, and a spotlight singled out a balcony overlooking the square.Charlie Chaplinwalked forward, and bowed. I have seldom heard such cheering. Hehad by then for many decades been hailed as one of the screen's great creators.In “City Lights” we can see the invention and humanity that coexist in hisfilms. Themovie contains some of Chaplin's great comic sequences, including the famousprize fight in which the Tramp uses his nimble footwork to always keep thereferee between himself and his opponent. There's the opening scene, where astatue is unveiled to find the Tramp asleep in the lap of a heroic Greco-Romanstone figure. (Trying to climb down, he gets his pants hooked through thestatue's sword, and tries to stand at attention during “The Star-SpangledBanner” although his feet can't find a footing.) There's the sequence where hetries to save the millionaire from drowning, and ends up with the rock tied tohis own neck; the scene where he swallows a whistle and gathers a following ofdogs; the scene where the millionaire and the Tramp encounter burglars; thescene in the nightclub where Charlie sees Apache dancers and defends the womandancer against her partner. Andthere are the bawdy moments, as when the Tramp, working as a street-sweeper,avoids a parade of horses only to encounter a parade of elephants; and when themillionaire pours bottles of champagne down the Tramp's pants. Chaplinwas a master of the small touch, the delayed reaction. Consider the moment whenhe goes to the blind girl's house to give her the money for an eye operation.He has prudently stashed $100 in his pocket for his own needs, but after shekisses his hand he shrugs, reaches in his pocket, and gives her the final bill. Advertisement Chaplinand Keaton are the giants of silent comedy, and in recent years the pendulum offashion has swung between them. Chaplin ruled supreme for years, but by the1960s he looked dated and sentimental to some viewers, and Keaton seemedfresher and more contemporary. In the polls taken every 10 years by Sight &Sound, the British film magazine, Chaplin placed high in 1952 and was gone by1962; Keaton placed high in 1972 and 1982, and Chaplin replaced him again in1992. The only thing such polls prove for sure is that a lot of film loversthink the work of both men belongs on a list of the 10 greatest films evermade. Bothfilmmakers based their work on their fictional personalities, but took oppositeapproaches. Keaton plays a different character every time; Chaplin usuallyplays a version of the Tramp. Keaton's characters desire acceptance,recognition, romance and stature in the real world, and try to adapt toconditions; Chaplin's characters are perpetual outsiders who rigidly repeat thesame strategies and reactions (often the gags come from how inappropriately theTramp behaves). Keaton's movements are smooth and effortless; Chaplin's oddlittle lopsided gait looks almost arthritic. They appeared together only once,in Chaplin's “Limelight” (1952). Keaton steals the scene--but, as Kerrobserves, Chaplin, who could have re-edited it to give himself the upper hand,was content to let Keaton prevail. Therewas a time when Chaplin was hailed as the greatest popular artist of the 20thcentury, and his films were known to everyone. Today, how many people watchthem? Are they shown in schools? I think not. On TV? Not very often. Silentfilm, the medium that gave Chaplin his canvas, has now robbed him of his massaudience. His films will live forever, but only for those who seek them out. Havingjust viewed “City Lights” and “Modern Times” again, I am still under theirspell. Chaplin's gift was truly magical. And silent films themselves create areverie state; there is no dialogue, no obtrusive super-realism, to interruptthe flow. They stay with you. They are not just a work, but a place. Mostof Chaplin's films are available on video. Children who see them at a certainage don't notice they're “silent” but notice only that every frame speaksclearly to them, without all those mysterious words that clutter other films.Then children grow up, and forget this wisdom, but the films wait patiently andare willing to teach us again. Advertisement