Winter in Scotland is as muted as a wake. The country's so farnorth, the sun is slow to rise and early to set, and a day can be blindinglybright or always seem like twilight. “The Winter Guest” follows four sets ofcharacters through a day in a Scottish village, and its purpose is not to drawa lesson or tell a story, but to evoke a mood. To see this film is to spend aday in a village near St. Andrews, and with a shock I realized I had oncelingered for an afternoon in this village, or one much like it--in August, whenthe days were long and the trees were green. Advertisement Everything is different in winter. The people disappear insideand count on one another. The film opens with a well-coifed woman in her 60s,in a fur coat, making her way across a field in bitter cold. This is Elspeth(Phyllida Law), and she is on her way to the house of her daughter Frances(Emma Thompson). She fears losing her. Frances' husband has died, and she hasretreated into an angry silence beyond mourning. Perhaps she will leaveScotland and move away with her teenage son Alex (Gary Hollywood). Alex has an admirer. Her name is Nita (Arlene Cockburn), and shehas a crush on him. Early on the day of the film she ambushes him with asnowball, and at first they scuffle but then they begin to talk, and by the endof the day they will be boyfriend and girlfriend, with all the uncertainty thatmeans at their age. There are two boys walking by the frozen sea. It is a schoolday,but they have stayed away, and no one will look for them here. They are Sam(Douglas Murphy) and Tom (Sean Biggerstaff), and the emptiness of the town andthe quiet of the weekday have made them a little more serious than theyplanned; they look about 12 or 13, and tentatively talk about more seriousthings than they would have six months ago. Two old ladies wait for a bus. They are Lily (Sheila Reid) andChloe (Sandra Voe), and they are connoisseurs of funerals. Like the girl inHuckleberry Finn who loved to mourn, they find something cheerful about therituals of death. They scour the death notices and compare notes on funeralspast; they are old enough and ordinary enough that no one ever questions themwhen they attend a funeral; they look like the relatives you are sure you haveforgotten. “The Winter Guest,” based on a play by Sharman Macdonald,follows these four couples and listens to them. There isn't a lot ofinteraction between them, although Alex does bring Nita home, and she does talkwith Frances. Since there is no plot engine to drag them all to the samestation, we're forced to decide why they find themselves in this film, and whatconnection they have. Is the Winter Guest death? Do these couples representfour stages of life? Childhood, courtship, parenthood and old age? The centralstrands involve Elspeth and Frances. Phyllida Law and Emma Thompson are motherand daughter in real life, and in the film they have the familiarity of alifelong couple. They know each other's speech rhythms. They look alike. WhenFrances closes herself off and refuses to talk, the worry lines betweenElspeth's eyes seem real--the stress of a mother who loves a daughter andcannot reach her. Frances at one point buries her ears in the bath water toblock out words she doesn't want to hear, but it's hard to ignore someone ifyou're also concerned about them--and Frances is worried that Elspeth isgrowing older and soon will not be able to take care of herself. Advertisement The other three couples have defined roles. They are sure whothey are, and more or less clear on how they should be acting on this winterday. But Elspeth and Frances are unsprung. The death of Frances' husband haschanged everything, redefined it, ended a stage of life. There is so much painthat talking about it is unbearable, and so the mother and daughter talk aroundit. “Winter Guest” is the directing debut ofAlan Rickman, an actorwho makes intelligent British films (“Truly, Madly, Deeply,” “Sense andSensibility”) and makes big money as a villain in American films (“Die Hard”).He has great command here of look and tone, and I felt I knew what it would belike to wander the streets of that village in Scotland. But the film left mefeeling strangely hollow. Perhaps it was meant to. At the end there is anemptiness, like stepping into air, or like a play interrupted after the firstact.