Opinion on the melodramas ofDouglas Sirkhas flip-flopped sincehis key films were released in the 1950s. At the time, critics ridiculed themand the public lapped them up. Today most viewers dismiss them as pop trash,but in serious film circles Sirk is considered a great filmmaker--a German whofled Hitler to become the sly subverter of American postwar materialism. One cold night this winter, I went up to the Everyman Cinema inHampstead, north of London, to see a revival of a restored print of Sirk's “Writtenon the Wind” (1956). This is a perverse and wickedly funny melodrama in whichyou can find the seeds of “Dallas,” “Dynasty,” and all the other prime-timesoaps. Sirk is the one who established their tone, in which shocking behavioris treated with passionate solemnity, while parody burbles beneath. Advertisement Allthe reviews of this movie seem to involve lists: It's about wealth, alcoholism,nymphomania, impotence, suicide, and veiled elements of incest andhomosexuality. And the theme song, by Sammy Cahn, is sung by the Four Aces. Thepieces are in place for a film you can mock and patronize. But my fellowaudience members sat in appreciative silence (all right, they snickered alittle whenRock Hudsonis told it's time to get married and replies, “I havetrouble enough just finding oil”). Toappreciate a film like “Written on the Wind” probably takes more sophisticationthan to understand one of Ingmar Bergman's masterpieces, because Bergman's themesare visible and underlined, while with Sirk the style conceals the message. Hisinteriors are wildly over the top, and his exteriors are phony--he wants you tonotice the artifice, to see that he's not using realism but an exaggeratedHollywood studio style. The Manhattan skyline in an early scene is obviously apainted backdrop. The rear-projected traffic uses cars that are 10 years tooold. The swimming hole at the river, where the characters make youthfulpromises they later regret, is obviously a tank on a sound stage with fakescenery behind it. Theactors are as artificial as the settings. They look like Photoplay covers, andspeak in the clichés of pulp romance. Sirk did not cast his films by accident,and one of the pleasures of “Written on the Wind” is the way he exaggerates thenatural qualities of his actors and then uses them ironically. Thefilm stars Rock Hudson as Mitch Wayne (think about that name), who grew up pooron the Texas ranch owned by oil millionaire Jasper Hadley (Robert Keith). He'sbeen raised with Jasper's son Kyle (Robert Stack) and daughter Marylee (DorothyMalone). Now Mitch holds an important post in the Hadley Oil empire, whichrequires him to wear a baseball cap and keep a yellow pencil parked over hisear, while studying geological maps. Kyle has turned into a drunken playboy,and Marylee into a drunken nympho. Asthe film opens, Mitch and Kyle are in New York, where they both fall in lovewith the trim, intelligent Lucy Moore (Lauren Bacall). When she tells Kyle shewants to work in advertising, he picks up the phone to buy her an agency. Shedemurs. All three have lunch at 21, and then Kyle sends Mitch to buy cigaretteswhile he whisks Lucy off in a cab to the airport, where Mitch (who knows histricks) is there ahead of them on the Hadley plane. Kyle pilots it himself,flying them to Miami Beach while confessing to Lucy, “I drink too much” and “Nobodyhas ever listened to me the way you do.” Of Mitch Wayne, he says: “He'seccentric. He's poor.” The terms are synonymous. Advertisement InMiami Beach, they check into a Hadley hotel, where the manager announces “MissMoore's suite” while the music swells in materialistic ecstasy, and Kyle showsLucy closets full of designer gowns, drawers full of purses and trays ofjewelry, and asks her to prepare for dinner. Half an hour later (after dressingwith Mitch in the suite they ... share), Kyle enters Lucy's suite, calling out,“Are you decent?” Discovering she has left for the airport, he muses, “I guessshe was.” MiamiBeach was a painted backdrop. Texas, apart from a few shots of sports carsracing past oil derricks, is all built on the back lot. The plot heats up.Marylee has had a crush on Mitch since childhood, and wants to marry him. Sogreat is her need, indeed, that when she sashays around in low-cut dresses, herknees almost buckle under the weight of her lust (Malone won an Oscar for theperformance). Kylegoes on the wagon, until a doctor unwisely informs him he is impotent. Well,not completely impotent--there is a “problem,” but a baby is “possible.” Kyledoesn't wait for the footnotes before racing to the country club to resume hisboozing, and when Lucy tells him she's pregnant, he assumes the father isMitch--a suspicion encouraged by Marylee, who wants Lucy off the ranch so shecan regain possession of her childhood friends. IfI smile as I synopsize the plot, surely Sirk was smiling when he directed it;he's subverting the very lifestyle he celebrates. His use of artificial andcontrived effects, colors and plot devices is “a screaming Brechtian essay onthe shared impotence of American family and business life,” says film criticDave Kehr, and encompasses deliberate distancing “that draws attention to theartificiality of the film medium, in turn commenting on the hollowness ofmiddle-class American life” (Cinebooks). Well, yes, but it's possible to enjoySirk's subtleties as simple entertainment, too. Films like this are both aboveand below middle-brow taste. If you only see the surface, it's trashy soap opera.If you can see the style, the absurdity, the exaggeration and the satiricalhumor, it's subversive of all the 1950s dramas that handled such materialsolemnly.William IngeandTennessee Williamswere taken with great seriousnessduring the decade, but Sirk kids their Freudian hysteria (that Williams' worksurvives is a tribute to his poetry, not his common sense). Onetest of satire is: At what point do we realize the author is kidding? There's aclue here in an early remark by Mitch to Lucy: “Are you looking for laughs? Orare you soul-searching?” And in the way the old swimming hole represents lostinnocence and promise for Marylee. In one of the film's more lurid sequences,Sirk uses a closeup of her face in orgiastic nostalgia, as we hear little Mitch'schildish voice piping out a promise to marry Marylee when they grow up. “Howfar we've come from the river!” Mitch later tells her. Advertisement There'sa broad wink and nudge at the end. Old Jasper Hadley is often seen behind hisdesk, which holds a large bronze model of an oil derrick. (A portrait on hiswall shows him at the same desk with the same bronze--a barbershop mirroreffect.) At the end of the film, after Marylee's rivals have won, she is leftalone in her father's office, where she caresses the erect derrick--firstsadly, then tenderly. Toappreciate the trashiness of “Written on the Wind” is not to condescend to it.To a greater degree than we realize, our lives and decisions are formed by popcliches and conventions. Films that exaggerate our fantasies help us to seethem--to be amused by them, and by ourselves. They clear the air. DouglasSirk (1900-1987) had two careers. His first 37 years were spent in Germany,where he worked as a stage director, specializing in classics. His firstAmerican film was “Hitler's Madmen” (1943), and his critical reputation isbased on a series of enormously popular melodramas he made for Universal,including “All I Desire” (1953), “Magnificent Obsession” (1954), “All ThatHeaven Allows” (1955) and “Imitation of Life” (1959). He also made Westerns,musicals and war stories, working with Hudson more often than any otherstar--perhaps appreciating the way Hudson's concealed homosexuality workedsubtly to subvert the stock characters he often played. RainerWerner Fassbinder, another German obsessed with American forms of melodrama,said Sirk was the greatest influence on his work. Certainly Sirk was the fatherof prime-time TV soaps. “I have seen `Written on the Wind' a thousand times,”the Spanish directorPedro Almodovarsaid, “and I cannot wait to see it again.”Sirk's style spread so pervasively that nobody could do melodrama with astraight face after him. In countless ways visible and invisible, Sirk's slysubversion skewed American popular culture, and helped launch a new age ofirony. Advertisement