“The Education of Little Tree” is another fine family movie thatwill no doubt be ignored by the fine families of America. The notion that thereis a hungry audience for good family entertainment, nurtured by such dreamersas the critic Michael Medved, is a touching mirage. American families made it apoint to avoid “The Secret Garden,” “The Little Princess,” “Shiloh” and even “RocketMan,” and I fear they'll also shield their offspring from “The Education ofLittle Tree.” Too bad. If children still exist whose imaginations have not beenhammered into pulp by R-rated mayhem such as “Starship Troopers,” this filmwill play as a magical experience. Advertisement The film tells the story of a half-Cherokee orphan who eludesthe clutches of his prim white aunt and is reared in the wilderness of theGreat Smoky Mountains by his grandparents. Granma (Tantoo Cardinal) isCherokee; Granpa (James Cromwell) was “born white, but learned to see throughCherokee eyes.” In a series of vignettes that adds up to life's lessons, theyteach Little Tree (Joseph Ashton) his school lessons, the poetry of nature anda lot of common sense. The film, set in the 1930s, of course sentimentalizes the wisdomof Native Americans--who, after decades in which they could do no right in themovies, now can do no wrong. Even Granpa's occupation--distilling and sellingmoonshine--is seen as a sort of public service for the local population, whodon't have the money for store-bought booze. But for Little Tree, life in hisgrandparents' small cabin is an idyll: He learns of nature, of the seasons, ofdogs and frogs and the mysteries of life and death. More insights are providedby an Indian neighbor, played byGraham Greene. The movie has its share of suspense and action, especially whenrevenuers come tramping through the woods looking for the still (the loyal dogBlue Boy holds them at bay while the boy crashes through the undergrowthrescuing a sack of Granpa's equipment). And when the grandparents lose custodyof the boy because of the moonshine business, there is a sequence set in aplace called the Notched Gap Indian School, which is less a school than areformatory, trying to cure its students of the notion that they are Indians.Little Tree looks through a window at the star that Granma told him to keep insight, and knows that it looks down on her, too. Granpa takes more directaction. The film is quietly well-acted. James Cromwell, as Granpa,proves here, as he did as the farmer in “Babe” and the police captain in “L.A.Confidential,” that despite his unmistakable physical presence he can playcharacters who are completely different from one another. What I liked here wasthe way Granpa is allowed to be sweet and light from the start; the movieavoids the usual cliche in which the older man is stiff and unbending, and onlygradually yields. There is a touching sequence where we fear deeply for him.Tantoo Cardinal, as Granma, has a presence and conviction that gives freshnessto her dialogue, which on the page might have looked rather simplistic. AndJoseph Ashton, as Little Tree, is another of those young actors who is freshand natural on camera; I believed in his character. Advertisement The movie arrives with some baggage. It is based on a book byForrest Carter, which was first identified as autobiographical, and then, aftera literary scandal, moved across the page from the New York Times nonfictionbest-seller list to the “fiction” column. In the process it was revealed thatCarter was in fact a man named Asa Carter, who had links to white supremacistgroups and wrote speeches forGeorge Wallacein his pre-enlightened days. Whatjourney Asa made on his way to becoming Forrest might make a good movie, too;in “The Education of Little Tree” he wrote a story that has the elements in itfor a strong, unusual, affecting drama. Anyone can find redemption. I began on a note of pessimism, fearing that families will notembrace this wholesome, PG-rated film. That would be a shame. My best guess isthat more 9-year-olds will see “Scream 2” than “Little Tree.” The loud,violent, cartoonish entertainment that's pumped into the minds of kids cannotbe creating much room for thought and values. It's all sensation. Such moviesas “Little Tree” are the kind that families can discuss afterward. There aretruths to be found in them. And questions. Somehow the noisy action junk neverleaves any questions (except about the future of our civilization).