There's a scene early in “The Apostle” whereRobert Duvall, as aPentecostal preacher from Texas, is having a talk with God, who has to do allof the listening. In an upstairs room at his mother's house, the preacher rantsand raves at the Almighty, asking for a way to see reason in calamity: Hischeating wife is stealing his church from him. So far, the scene could be in a more conventional film. But thenthe phone rings, and it's a neighbor, complaining to the preacher's mother thatsomeone is “carrying on like a wild man.” The call establishes that thepreacher lives in a real world, with real neighbors, and not on a sound stagewhere his life is lived in a self-contained drama. His mother tells theneighbor that her son has talked to God ever since he was a boy, and she's notgoing to stop him now. Advertisement “The Apostle” sees its characters in an unusually perceptivelight; they have the complexity and spontaneity of people in a documentary.Duvall, who not only plays the preacher but also wrote and directed the film,has seen this preacher--named Eulis “Sonny” Dewey--with great attention andsympathy. Sonny is different from most movie preachers. He's not a fraud,for one thing; Hollywood tilts toward the Elmer Gantry stereotype. Sonny has aone-on-one relationship with God, takes his work seriously, and in the movie'sopening scene, the preacher pauses at an auto accident to ask one of thevictims to accept Jesus Christ, “who you're going to soon meet.” Sonny isflawed, with a quick temper, but he's a good man, and the film is about hisstruggle back to redemption after his anger explodes. As the film opens, Sonny is spending a lot of time on the roadat revivals (we see him at one of them, made convincing because Duvall cast allthe extras from real congregations). His wife (Farrah Fawcett) has taken upwith the youth minister, and one night, sitting in a motel room, Sonny figuresthat out, drives home through the darkness, finds her absent from her bed andthrows a baseball through the minister's bedroom window. His wife wants out of the marriage. And, through legal but shadymaneuverings, she also deprives him of his church and his job. Sonny getsdrunk, wades into a Little League game being coached by the youth minister andbangs him on the head with a baseball bat. Then he flees town (there is anoverhead shot of his car circling aimlessly around a rural intersection; he hasno idea where to go). Eventually he ends up in a hamlet in the Louisiana bayou,where he spends his first night in a pup tent supplied by a man who wants tohelp him but isn't sure he trusts him. Sonny changes his name to “The Apostle E. F.” and sets about rebuildinga small rural church given him by a retired black minister. His mostly blackcongregation is small at first, but grows as the result of broadcasts on thelocal 40-watt station. We see in countless little ways that Sonny is serious:He wants this church to work, he wants to save souls, he wants redemption. Likethe documentary “Say Amen, Somebody,” the film spends enough time at the churchservices, listening to the music and the preaching, that we get into thespirit; we understand his feelings. Advertisement “The Apostle” has become something of a legend in independentfilm circles, because Duvall was so long in getting the movie made. The majorstudios turned him down (of course; it's about something, which scares them).So did old associates who had always promised help, but didn't return his callson this project. As he waited, Duvall must have rewritten the script manytimes, because it is astonishingly subtle. There isn't a canned and prefabstory arc, with predictable stops along the way. Instead, the movie feels asalive as if it's a documentary of things happening right now. Consider a sequence where the Apostle E. F., who is a man afterall, asks the receptionist at the local radio station out on a date. How willhe approach her? How does she see him? He wants to find a way to make hisdesires clear, without offending her. She knows this. As played by Duvall andMiranda Richardson, the sequence is a brilliant observation of social andsexual strategies. Many of his scenes develop naturally, instead of along the linesof obligatory cliches. A confrontation with his wife, for example, doesn't endas we think it might. And a face-down with a redneck racist (Billy BobThornton) develops along completely unexpected lines. The Apostle E. F. is noteasy to read; Duvall's screenplay does what great screenwriting is supposed todo, and surprises us with additional observations and revelations in everyscene. Perhaps it's not unexpected that Duvall had to write, direct andstar in this film, and round up the financing himself. There aren't that manypeople in the film industry gifted enough to make such a film, and fewer stillwith the courage to deal honestly with a subject both spiritual and complex.(Simple-minded spirituality is no problem; consider the market for angels rightnow). “The Apostle” is like a lesson in how movies can escape fromconvention and penetrate the hearts of rare characters. Advertisement