"I love staying at local homes,” the man says, accepting anoffer of hospitality after he misses the last bus back to the city. He has beencollecting insects in a remote desert region of Japan. The villagers lead himto a house at the bottom of a sandpit, and he climbs down a rope ladder tospend the night with the woman who lives there. She prepares his dinner, andfans him as he eats. During the night, he awakens to observe that she isoutside, shoveling sand. In the morning, he sees her sleeping, her body nakedand sparkling with sand. He goes outside to leave. "That's funny,” he saysto himself. "The ladder is gone.” Advertisement There is a harsh musical chord at this moment, announcing theharsh surprise of "Woman in the Dunes” (1964), one of the rare films ableto combine realism with a parable about life. The man (Eiji Okada) is expectedto remain in the pit and join the woman in shoveling sand, which is hauled tothe surface in bags by the villagers. "If we stop shoveling,” the woman(Kyoko Kishida) explains, "the house will get buried. If we get buried,the house next door is in danger.” I am not able to understand the mechanics of that explanation,nor do I understand the local economy. The villagers sell the sand forconstruction, the woman explains. It is too salty to meet the building codes,but they sell it cheap. But surely there are choices other than living in a pitand selling sand? Of course there is no logic beneath the story, and thedirector,Hiroshi Teshigahara, has even explained that sand cannot rise insteep walls like those on the sides of the pit: “I found it physicallyimpossible to create an angle of more than 30 degrees.” Yet there is never a moment when the film doesn't lookabsolutely realistic, and it isn't about sand anyway, but about life. "Areyou shoveling to survive, or surviving to shovel?” the man asks the woman, andwho cannot ask the same question? "Woman in the Dunes” is a modern versionof the myth of Sisyphus, the man condemned by the gods to spend eternityrolling a boulder to the top of a hill, only to see it roll back down. In a way the man has himself to blame. He makes his desert tripsto escape He seeks solitude and finds it. The film opens with a montage offingerprints and passport stamps, and then there is a closeup of a grain ofsand as big as a boulder, and then several the size of diamonds, and thencountless grains, with the wind rippling their surface as if they were water.There has never been sand photography like this (no, not even in "Lawrence of Arabia"), and by anchoring the story so firmly in this tangible physicalreality, the cinematographer, Hiroshi Segawa, helps the director pull off thedifficult feat of telling a parable as if it is really happening. The score byToru Takemitsudoesn't underline the action but mocks it, with high, plaintivenotes, harsh, like a metallic wind. The first time I saw the film, it playedlike a psycho-sexual adventure. The underlying situation is almostpornographic: A wandering man is trapped by a woman, who offers her body at theprice of lifelong servitude. There is a strong erotic undercurrent, beginningwith the woman displaying her sleeping form, and continuing through hostility,struggle and bondage to their eventual common ground. More than almost any other film I can think of, "Woman inthe Dunes” uses visuals to create a tangible texture--of sand, of skin, ofwater seeping into sand and changing its nature. It is not so much that thewoman is seductive as that you sense, as you look at her, exactly how it wouldfeel to touch her skin. The film's sexuality is part of its overall reality: Inthis pit, life is reduced to work, sleep, food and sex, and when the womanwishes for a radio, "so we could keep up with the news,” she onlyunderlines how meaningless that would be. Advertisement The screenplay is byKobo Abe, based on his own novel, and itreveals the enormity of the situation slowly and deliberately--not rushing toannounce the man's dilemma, but revealing it in little hints and insights,while establishing the daily rhythm of life in the dunes. The pit-dwellers areserviced by villagers from above, who use pulleys to lower water and supplies,and haul up the sand. It is never clear whether the woman willingly descendedinto her pit or was placed there by the village; certainly she has accepted herfate, and would not escape if she could. She participates in the capture of theman because she must: Alone, she cannot shovel enough sand to stay ahead of thedrifts, and her survival--her food and water--depend on her work. Besides, herhusband and daughter were buried in a sandstorm, she tells the man, and"the bones are buried here.” So they are both captives--one acceptingfate, the other trying to escape it. The man tries everything he can to climb from the pit, and thereis one shot, a wall of sand raining down, that is so smooth and sudden theheart leaps. As a naturalist, he grows interested in his situation, in thebirds and insects that are visitors. He devises a trap to catch a crow, andcatches no crows, but does discover by accident how to extract water from thesand, and this discovery may be the one tangible, useful, unchallengedaccomplishment of his life. Everything else, as a narrative voice (his?) tellsus, is contracts, licenses, deeds, ID cards-- "paperwork to reassure oneanother.” Hiroshi Teshigahara was 37 when he directed "Woman in theDunes,” which won the jury prize at Cannes and two Oscar nominations. Hisfather had founded a famous school of flower arranging in Tokyo--a school whereI once took a few classes, getting just a glimpse of the possibility that toarrange flowers harmoniously could be a triumph of art and philosophy, and aform of meditation. He was always expected to take over management of theschool ("a situation ironically similar to that of the protagonist of"Woman in the Dunes,' the film notes observe). He seems intrigued byvariety, and has made documentaries on the boxer Jose Torres and on a woodblock artist, has worked in ceramics, directed opera, staged tea ceremonies,and directed seven other feature films. He also, according to plan, took overthe flower arranging school. Advertisement "Woman in the Dunes” seemed to disappear for years. I triedto rent it for film classes, and couldn't. At Teshigahara's school in Tokyo, Iwas told vaguely by a translator that the master had chosen to look in newdirections, instead of back at his old work. But now a fresh print has beenreleased by Milestone, an American company dedicated to rescuing films, andseeing the film in 35 mm., I found it as radical, hard-edged and challenging aswhen I first saw it. Unlike some parables that are powerful the first time but merelypious when revisited, "Woman in the Dunes” retains its power because it isa perfect union of subject, style and idea. A man and a woman share a commontask. They cannot escape it. On them depends the community--and, by extension,the world. But is struggle the only purpose of struggle? By discovering theprinciple of the water pump, the man is able to bring something new intoexistence. He has changed the terms of the deal. You cannot escape the pit. Butyou can make it a better pit. Small consolation is better than none.