Of all of the places the movies have created, one of the mostmagical and enduring is the universe ofFred AstaireandGinger Rogers. To aseries of movies made between 1933 and 1939, they brought such grace and humorthat they became the touchstone of all things elegant. “Whenever any kind ofquestion of style or taste comes up,” the directorGregory Navaonce told me, “Isimply ask myself--what would Fred Astaire have done?” Astaireand Rogers were, first of all, great dancers. So were a lot of other filmperformers, including Astaire's partners (Rita Hayworth, Eleanor Powell, CydCharisse) after Rogers turned to serious dramatic roles. But what Fred andGinger had together, and what no other team has ever had in the same way, was ajoy of performance. They were so good, and they knew they were so good, thatthey danced in celebration of their gifts. Advertisement Lookat the final moment of their number “Isn't It a Lovely Day?” in “Top Hat”(1935). It begins with her mocking him, following him around a bandstand withher hands in her pockets. It escalates into a passionately physical dance incounterpoint to thunder and lightning, and then slows down into a sequencewhere they imitate each other's styles and moves. Finally, satisfied, they plopdown on the edge of the bandstand and shake hands. Ihave always thought that handshake was between the dancers, not theircharacters. More than any other dancers in the history of film, Astaire andRogers occupied real time. Godard told us in the 1960s that “the cinema istruth 24 times a second, and every cut is a lie.” Astaire arrived at the sameconclusion 35 years earlier. He believed every dance number should be filmed,as nearly as possible, in one unbroken take, always showing the full figures ofthe dancers from head to toes. Thereare no cutaways to an admiring audience--Astaire thought that was adistraction. No cuts, or very few, to different points of view (in “Swing Time,”the camera is on a crane to follow them up flights of stairs from a lower dancefloor to a higher one). And no closeups of the dancer's faces, for that woulddeny us the movement of their bodies. (After seeing the dance film “Stayin'Alive” in 1983, Rogers sniffed to me: “The young people today--they think theycan dance with their faces!”) Whenyou see anyone--an athlete, a musician, a dancer, a craftsman--doing somethingdifficult and making it look easy and a joy, you feel enhanced. It is a victoryfor the human side, over the enemies of clumsiness, timidity and exhaustion.The cynical line on Astaire and Rogers was, “She gave him sex; he gave herclass.” Actually, they both had class, and sex was never the point. Thechemistry between Fred and Ginger was not simply erotic, but intellectual andphysical: They were two thoroughbreds who could dance better than anyone else,and knew it. Astaire's later dance partners danced in his spotlight, but GingerRogers, the dance critic Arlene Croce wrote, “shed her own light.” Advertisement Astairewas a painstaking craftsman who, usually working with the choreographer HermesPan, preplanned even the slightest gesture in his dances. Rogers was aperformer, not a creator, but she was willing to rehearse until her feetbled--and did. (“I did everything Fred did--backwards, and in heels.”) There isthe fiction in their films that the dance numbers between them just happen, asa spontaneous expression of their feelings. They look carefree, but they'retightly disciplined in timing and movement, and required unimaginable hours ofrehearsal. Manyof the Astaire-Rogers musicals involve Fred falling in love with Ginger atfirst sight, after which she backs cautiously away, only to be wooed in aseries of dance numbers. When she has finally fallen in love, incredible plotcontrivances make her think he's an adulterer, a philanderer, or engaged tosomebody else. In film after film, she shies away from the undeniable lovebetween them, only to be finally saved at the last moment during a dance sceneof great romance and passion. “Only a very good girl could be quite so shrewdabout life and so dumb about any man who threatens to race her blood,” MurrayKempton wrote when she died in 1995. Thebest of the Astaire-Rogers films is their fifth, “Swing Time” (1936), directedbyGeorge Stevensat a time when he was a king at RKO Radio Pictures (his othercredits in that period included “Alice Adams” and “Gunga Din”). The plot, withits sly drolleries, is based like “Top Hat” on mistaken identities, but it'swittier and more cleverly written; it could have been devised by P.G.Wodehouse. It serves to link the great dance sequences, built around JeromeKern songs, including the climactic “Never Gonna Dance” number that may be thehigh point of the Astaire-Rogers partnership. Advertisement Thissong, which comes at the end and emotionally resolves all of their problems,has always struck me as mirroring the act of lovemaking. It opens with Astaire,dejected by rejection, walking slowly across the floor of a deserted nightclub.Rogers follows him, just as depressed. Almost imperceptibly, their walk gathersa quiet rhythm, until they are dancing without ever quite seeming to havestarted. They dance apart, together, apart. Astaire uses his trademark ofchanging tempo: Unrestrained passion changes suddenly to prolonged, drawn-outsteps suggesting slow motion. Then the tempo revives again. Anotherbrilliant sequence is Astaire's solo, the “Bojangles of Harlem” number.Enlightened sensibilities are jarred by the sight of Astaire in blackface, butthe Cinebooks essay calls this “perhaps the only blackface number on film whichdoesn't make one squirm today. His skin made up as an African American ratherthan a minstrel-show caricature of one, Astaire dances an obvious tribute tothe great Bill Robinson.” Thenumber includes a famous sequence in which Astaire dances in front of threeback-projected shadows of himself. The four figures are all in perfect sync formost of the way, until the joke is revealed when one of the shadows breaks outof sync, and eventually all three exit--unable to keep up with him. How did hedo this? The three background silhouettes have identical movements, and Astairemirrors them so well they seem to be his shadows, but apparently he simplytimed his live performance so well it mirrored the back projection. Suchtechnical discipline is awesome. There'salso the great number “Waltz in Swing Time,” in an astounding art deconightclub, as a duet about new love: Their movements don't suggest physicalpassion, but that early stage of idealism in which lovers discover they'resoulmates. And the movie's first dance number, “Pick Yourself Up,” is funny forthe way Astaire pretends to be unable to dance, gets lessons from a danceinstructor (Rogers), gets her fired, and then dances a furiously energetic tapnumber with her to prove to the boss that she did teach him something. Advertisement FredAstaire (1899-1987) had such a particular physical presence that he was easyfor cartoonists to caricature--he'd already done their work for them, with hishair slicked back flat from a high forehead above his long, triangular face. Hewore clothes as if he had been born in them. His legs flopped over the arms ofchairs, as if sitting up straight was unnatural for him. His romantic rivals,on the other hand, wore evening dress as if they had hair shirts underneath. GingerRogers (1911-1995), almost as tall as Astaire, slender, athletic, with a facemore cheerful than classically beautiful, was Astaire's ideal partner even whenthey weren't dancing. That's because they both knew, long before many of theircontemporaries, that less is more. Big broad facial reactions and strongemotions would have destroyed these fragile films. Rogers survived herludicrous plots by never quite seeming to believe them. She was sad, but nottoo sad; angry, but as an act, not an emotion. Whenthe genuine poignancy of their endangered romances had to be expressed, it wasalways through dance, not dialogue. That's why the “Never Gonna Dance” numberis so wonderful: In their voices and movements, they make it clear that if theycan't dance, they can't live. Well, maybe they can, but what fun would that be?