After “Follow Me Home” was turned down by every mainstreamdistributor in America, a new distribution plan was conceived: It would bebooked one theater at a time, around the country, with a discussion scheduledafter almost every screening. For the last year this difficult, challengingfilm has found audiences in that way, and now it arrives at the Chatham 14multiplex here. There is a lot to discuss afterward. The film is about four graffiti mural artists who pile into avan and head cross-country from Los Angeles to Washington, with a plan to coverthe White House with their paintings. In an age when Christo wraps upbuildings, this is perhaps not as farfetched as it sounds, although I imaginethey'll have trouble getting an NEA grant through Congress. Advertisement The artists include an African American, an American Indian andtwo Chicanos; on their odyssey most of the people they meet are white weirdos.One is reminded of the ominous rednecks encountered by the hippie motorcyclistsin “Easy Rider.” The whites are stereotyped in broad, unfair strokes, but thenthe movie throws you off-balance by throwing in one decent white guy and oneredeemable one, and by making one of the painters into a fulminating cauldronof prejudice. By the end, you realize “Follow Me Home” isn't making a tidystatement about anything, but is challenging the audience to make up its ownmind: to view racial attitudes and decide where they come from and what liesbeneath them. The writer-director,Peter Bratt, might almost have taken “EasyRider” as his model--the parts that work, and the other parts, too. Some of hisdialogue scenes are too long and disorganized, but then suddenly everythingsnaps together in a scene of real power. Consider, for example, a scene in a diner where a waitress feelsshe's been mistreated by one of the men (she is right). The owner comes out,lays a shotgun on the table and delivers a lecture about their right of freespeech and his right to bear arms. What is this scene about? A racist gunowner? Not necessarily, or entirely. The four men in the booth have differentways of seeing the situation, and the scene is about styles of intimidation. Along the road, the men encounter whites wearing variouscostumes. There's a white guy who dresses like an Indian; they steal hisantique tomahawk. Later, they encounter three white guys dressed in uniform fora U.S. Cavalry re-enactment. Are the soldiers so inflamed that they mistake themen of color for savage redskins? The development and outcome of this scene arehard to believe, but since it builds into magic realism, belief isn't thepoint. It's about a battle between two myths: the white myth of taming the Westand the black/Indian myth of soul power. Advertisement A key character in the film, encountered midway, is anAfrican-American woman played byAlfre Woodard. She takes a lift from the guys,and gets angry when one of them can think of no words for a woman except “whore”and “bitch.” Her powerful speech (“Look at me! I am a woman!”) quiets him, andlater woman power saves them all. The personal styles of the four painters are all different. Theblack guy (Calvin Levels) is an intellectual, vegetarian and pacifist, who usesterms such as “patriarchal theocracy.” The Indian guy (Steve Reevis) is arecovering alcoholic (a little stereotyping there?). The leader of theexpedition, Tudee (Jesse Borrego), is the idealist whose vision brought themtogether. His cousin Abel (Benjamin Bratt) is angry at everyone, especiallywomen. Are they a cross section? No, just a collection. Watching the film, I resented the broad caricatures of whites.Then I reflected that broad caricatures of blacks were a feature of movies fordecades and decades; just their luck that when a generation of black filmmakersarrives, stereotyping has gone out of style. I don't think Bratt is a racist,however: He's an instigator. He's putting highly charged material on the screenand standing back to see what happens. Most movies are too timid to deal insuch controversy. “Follow Me Home” is being shown in just the right way. It needsthat discussion afterward. It doesn't come as a package that you can wrap upand take home. It's open-ended. It shows how films can cut, probe and wound. Itcan awaken a sense of fair play in the audience. And in its fantasy and symbolism,it evokes a mystery level, beneath explanation. Most movies are over whenthey're over. This one is only beginning.