A creaky British writer, who has lived for decades in a cocoonof his books and his musings, locks himself out of the house one day in therain. He takes refuge in a nearby movie theater, choosing a film based on anovel by Forster. After a time, he murmurs, “This isn't E.M. Forster!” And hebegins to collect his coat and hat so he can leave. Indeed it is not Forster. The film is “Hotpants College II,”about the high jinks of a crowd of randy undergraduates. But as the writer,named Giles De'Ath, rises to his feet, he sees an image that causes him topause. The camera slowly zooms in on his face, illuminated by the flickeringlight reflected from the screen, as he stands transfixed by the sight of ayoung actor named Ronnie Bostock. Advertisement It is this moment of rapture that gives “Love and Death on LongIsland” its sly comic enchantment. Giles De'Ath, played byJohn Hurtas a manlong settled in his dry and dusty ways, has fallen in love with a Hollywoodteen idol, and his pursuit of this ideal leads him stumbling into the 20thcentury. He finds that films can be rented, and he goes to a video store toobtain two other Ronnie Bostock titles, “Tex Mex” and “Skidmarks.” Dressed likean actor playing T. S. Eliot, discussing the titles with the clerk as if hewere speaking to a librarian in the British Museum, he rents the tapes andbrings them home, only to find that he needs a VCR. He purchases the VCR andhas it delivered to his book-lined study, where the delivery man gentlyexplains why he also will require a television set. At last, banishing his housekeeper from his study, Giles settlesdown into a long contemplation of the life and work of Ronnie Bostock. He evenobtains teenage fan magazines (the cover of one calls Bostock “snoggable!”),and cuts out Ronnie's photos to paste them in a scrap book, which in hiselaborate cursive script he labels Bostockiana. He sneaks out to dispose of themagazines as if they were pornography and daydreams of a TV quiz show on whichhe would know all the answers to trivia questions about Ronnie (Favoriteauthor:Stephen King. Favorite musician: Axl Rose). These opening scenes of “Love and Death on Long Island” arefunny and touching, and Hurt brings a dignity to Giles De'Ath that transcendsany snickering amusement at his infatuation. It's not even perfectly clear thatGiles' feelings are homosexual; he has been married, now lives as a widower,and there is no indication that he has (or for that matter had) any sex life atall. At lunch with his bewildered agent, he speaks of “the discovery of beautywhere no one ever thought of looking for it.” And in a lecture on “The Death ofthe Future,” he spins off into rhapsodies about smiles (he is thinking onlyabout Ronnie's). Advertisement There is something here like the obsession of the little man in “MonsieurHire,” who spies adoringly on the young woman whose window is opposite his own.No physical action is contemplated: Sexual energy is focused in the eyes andthe imagination. The cinema of Ronnie Bostock, Giles believes, “has brought meinto contact with all I never have been.” It is always a disappointment whenfantasies become real; no mere person can equal our imaginings. Giles actuallyflies to Long Island, where he knows Bostock has a home, and sets out to findhis idol. This journey into the new land is not without hazards for thereclusive London writer, who checks into a hot-sheets motel and soon findshimself hanging out at “Chez D'Irv,” a diner where the owner (Maury Chaykin)refers to almost everything as “very attractive.” But eventually Giles doesfind his quarry. First he meets Audrey (Fiona Loewi), Ronnie's girlfriend, andthen Ronnie himself, played byJason Priestleywith a sort of distantfriendliness that melts a little when Giles starts comparing his films withShakespeare's bawdy passages. The film doesn't commit the mistake of makingRonnie stupid and shallow, and Audrey is very smart; there's a scene where shelooks at Giles long and hard, as his cover story evaporates in her mind. I almost wish Giles had never gotten to Long Island--had nevermet the object of his dreams. The film, directed byRichard Kwietniowskiandbased on a novel by the British film criticGilbert Adair, steps carefully inthe American scenes, and finds a way to end without cheap melodrama or easyemotion. But the heart of the film is in Giles' fascination, his reveries aboutRonnie's perfection. There is a scene in “Hotpants College II” in which Ronniereclines on the counter of a hamburger joint, and his pose immediately remindsGiles of Henry Wallis' famous painting “The Death of Chatterton,” in which theyoung poet is found dead on his bed in a garret. Thomas Chatterton was to the18th century as Bostock is to ours, I suppose: sex symbol, star, popularentertainer, golden youth. It's all in how you look at it.