“What I sell is true love,” says the heroine of Bertrand Blier's“Mon Homme.” “With me they hear the music.” She says her name is Marie (AnoukGrinberg) and she is the hooker of a john's dreams: “I should pay you,” shetells one client. As the film opens, we find her sitting outside a hotel (“Thisis where I spin my web”), explaining how much she enjoys prostitution. “Everthought of being paid for it?” she asks a matron who is passing by. The matronhas. In no time at all, Marie has talked her into turning her first trick. Advertisement Blier's films are often about men in the service of their sexualneeds. “Too Beautiful for You” (1990) starredGerard Depardieuas a man wholeaves his elegant wife for the dowdy secretary who obsesses him. The Oscarwinner “Get Out Your Handkerchief” (1977) starred Depardieu as a man whodespairs of satisfying his wife. In “Mon Homme,” Blier in a sense has cast hisusual male role with a woman: Marie calls the shots, satisfies herself, sleepswith whom she wants, and gets paid for it. But her life is not perfect until one day she discovers aderelict sleeping near a garbage heap. She brings him home, feeds him (leftoverveal stew; French refrigerators never contain old pizzas and doggie bags from theChinese restaurant). Then they make love. Grinberg is awesome in suggesting herpassion; the earth shakes because she's shaking it. There is a small detailthat's just right: the way she bites his chin through his beard. Jeannot(Gerard Lanvin) is expert and enduring. She bathes him, shaves him and asks himto be her pimp and take all her money. He: “What if you want money?” She: “I'll ask you for it.” He: “Andif I refuse?” She: “Then you'll be a real pimp.” I wouldn't go so far as to saythere are no hookers like this in Paris, but Blier may have found the only one. I was distracted, during their lovemaking, by the thought that ahomeless man, found on a garbage heap, would be aromatic. Shouldn't she havebathed him before sex? But a moment's thought reveals that Marie is not beingentirely truthful about her needs: It is not so much that she loves sex andprostitution as that she's a masochist, as Jeannot intuits when he slaps herafter she has given him stew, sex and what he concedes is a rather nice redwine. (“Like the smack?” She nods. Later, good fellow that he is, he instructsher on how to duck when she senses a slap on its way.) If Blier had been trueto the logic of the story, he would have followed Marie's compulsions to theirbitter end. Instead, he spins off into Jeannot's story, as the new pimp (whocleans up nicely) seduces a manicurist, names her Tangerine and tries to sether up in business. Tangerine, who thinks with her mouth open, does not haveenough wit for the game, and soon Jeannot is being slapped around by the cops;in France, it is legal to be a prostitute but not to be a pimp. The film drifts away into developments, fantasies, whimsy andconceit. Its energy is lost. Blier has a strong central character andabandons her rather than accept the inescapable implications of her behavior. Ido not argue that prostitutes cannot be happy (indeed, I have here a letterfrom a prostitute taking me to task for calling all the characters in “BoogieNights” sad). But I argue that Marie is not happy, and that Blier's view ofwomen and their sexuality is so narrow that he simply cannot accommodate thatinconvenience. Advertisement