Sometimes the story behind a movie can bring an angle to what'son the screen. Consider “Two Girls and a Guy,” written and directed by JamesToback, and starringRobert DowneyJr. The story involves a two-timing actorwho returns to his Manhattan apartment to be confronted by both of hisgirlfriends, who've just found out about each other. Here's the background: * Toback and Downey worked togetherbefore, in “The Pick-Up Artist” (1987), where Downey played a compulsivewomanizer who bounded through the streets of New York, fast-talking prettygirls. He was a cad and a liar, but likable; Pauline Kael wrote that “Downey,whose soul is floppy-eared, gives the movie a fairy-tale sunniness.” * JamesToback himself is, or was, a notorious pickup artist. How notorious? The lateSpy magazine once printed a double fold-out chart of his activity during justone month. With the names of his female targets running down the left-hand sideof the page, the magazine used a grid to chronicle his various approaches, andhow many of his favorite pickup lines (“I work closely withWarren Beatty”) heused on each woman. Advertisement * When Downey was shown on television, being led to jail inhandcuffs on drug charges, Toback was watching, and says he sat downimmediately to write a screenplay for his old friend. “When I saw him in thatorange jail jump suit, I knew he was ready to play this role,” Toback told meat the 1997 Toronto film festival. Of course, perhaps Toback (whose screenplaysinclude “The Gambler” and “Bugsy”) was also ready to write it; the film isconfessional and contrite. * “Two Girls and a Guy” was written in four days and filmed injust 11, mostly inside a single apartment in SoHo. Not long after, Downey wentback to court and eventually to jail, only to be released this month. Downey is not floppy-eared or sunny in this film as Blake, buthe is resilient and unbowed. Confronted with both of his girlfriends, Carla(Heather Graham) and Lou (Natasha Gregson Wagner), he talks and thinks quickly,saying he meant it when he told them both he had “never experienced real love”before. “He decided consciously to start with both of us at the sametime!” Lou says. And as they work it out, it appears he did meet them at aboutthe same time. He saw each girl three nights of the week, excusing himself onthe other nights because of the illness of his mother, who neither one evermet. The two women meet on his doorstep, break into his apartment andare hiding there when he returns from a trip and leaves phone messages for themboth. When he sees them, he's at a loss for words, but soon they come tumblingout; Toback in person is a torrential talker, and here Downey is as persuasiveas a snake oil salesman and Wagner (Natalie Wood's daughter) fires outhigh-energy dialogue likeRobin Williams. What can be said, really? He's a cheating, lying SOB, and bothwomen find even more colorful terms to describe him, both as a person and interms of his various parts. The movie is essentially a filmed stage play, oneof those idea-plays like Shaw liked to write, in which men and women pondertheir differences and complexities. Is it true that men are polygamous bynature? It's much more complex than that, the movie suggests, especially afterLou suggests that her interest in Blake might expand to include Carla. Advertisement Downey, whatever his problems, is a fine actor, smart and incommand of his presence, and he's persuasive here as he defends himself: “I'man actor. And actors lie.” There is a show-stopping scene when he looks athimself in a mirror and warns himself to get his act together. There are somenotes in the movie that I could have done without, including an offstagegunshot and a tearjerker ending. But I enjoyed the ebb and flow of their timetogether. What shows Toback has learned something since his days as a Spycover boy is that the movie doesn't pretend any of these three people is reallyin love. They're playing at being in love, but essentially all three aresoloists, looking out for themselves, and the women can sustain outrage only solong before they begin to seek additional amusements and possibilities. As forthe man, well, he always told them his favorite song was “You Don't Know Me.”