Louise Brooks regards us from the screen as if the screen werenot there; she casts away the artifice of film and invites us to play with her.Her beauty was “almost impersonal,” Pauline Kael wrote; she carries it like agift she doesn't think much about, and confronts us as a naughty girl. When youmeet someone like this in life, you're attracted, but you know in your gutshe'll be nothing but trouble. Lifecannot permit such freedom, and so Brooks, in her best films, is grounddown--punished for her joy. At the end of “Pandora's Box” (1928), she's killedwhile in the embrace of Jack the Ripper, and the audience isn't even asked toaccept her death as punishment for her wicked ways. It's more a settling ofscores: Anyone who looks that great, and lives life on her own terms, has to beswatted down by fate or the rest of us will grow discouraged. Advertisement “LouiseBrooks was way too wild in a business that was way too tame.” So says Dr. PaoloCherchi Usai, curator of the film collection at Eastman House in Rochester,N.Y. We see him in “Looking for Lulu,” an hourlong documentary, narrated byShirley MacLaine, that Turner Classic Movies will air May 5, part of itsmonthlong tribute to Brooks. The cable channel will also show “Pandora's Box,” “TheShow-Off” (1926) and “God's Gift to Women” (1935). If you can believe SteveSilberman's article in Wired magazine, there is a Brooks revival sweeping thecountry; she is the most popular dead actress on the Web, and so on. Popularitycomes and goes. Brooks remains, because of her luck in making two great filmsin Germany right at the end of the silent era, after she had burned all herbridges in Hollywood. Thesefilms are “Pandora's Box” and “Diary of a Lost Girl,” both directed by themaster of psycho-sexual melodrama, G.W. Pabst. Now restored and available onvideo, they glisten with the purity of black and white, and Brooks' face isfixed forever: the bangs cut low over the eyes (“One of the 10 haircuts thatchanged the world,” according to InStyle magazine); the eyebrows rich andlevel, parallel to the bangs; the deep dark eyes; the mouth often caught in apout or a tease; the porcelain skin; the perfect regularity of features thatmade her almost a cartoon (she inspired the comic strip “Dixie Dugan”). Sheis thin but not skinny, a flapper. Her lovers includedCharles Chaplin, CBSpresident William Paley (who gave her a lifetime stipend), and manyothers--including the clients of an escort agency she worked for in New York inthe 1940s, after all of her rich and famous friends had forgotten her. She was “toowild” (thrown out of the Algonquin Hotel at 18 for “promiscuity”), but therewas another problem; she drank too much. When she drank she did things liketelling Paramount to go to hell when they asked her to come back to Hollywoodand dub dialogue into her last silent film. Advertisement Herlife was as harrowing as Frances Farmer's, but it had a happier ending. Afterthe early fame (she danced with Martha Graham at 16), the Hollywood stardom,the German films, and the slow decline (she lusted afterJohn Waynein that Bwestern they made together), there came the lost years of drinking and “escorting,”and then--well, it happened that her New York apartment was across the hallfrom John Springer's, and he was a publicist. When James Card, then the filmcurator at Eastman House, asked Springer where Brooks could be found, Springerknocked on her door. Brooksvisited Rochester to look at her old films, and was invited to stay. Card fellin love with her, although the nature of their relationship is unclear. He tookher to Paris for a retrospective at the Cinematheque Francais, where rumpledold Henri Langlois declared, “There is no Garbo! There is no Dietrich! There isonly Louise Brooks!” Brooks must have smiled to hear her name linked with twoof her reputed lovers. InRochester, she wrote memoirs that were eventually collected into Lulu inHollywood, one of the few film books that can be called indispensable. Sheremembered Bogart as a kid starting out on the New York stage, and the privatelovability of her old friend, W.C. Fields. And she was frank about her rise andespecially her fall. Many silent stars become boring relics, repeating the samememorized anecdotes. Louise Brooks was saved by the astringent power of herwit. Theother night I looked again at “Pandora's Box,” which was offered to her byPabst just as Hollywood dumped her. Would it be a great film without herpresence and her closeups? Maybe not. The plot, which could be remade today,involves a young woman named Lulu who says she is not a prostitute, while wenotice that she behaves an awfully lot like one. She's entertaining themeter-reader as the film begins, and then welcomes Schigolch (Carl Goetz), aseedy old man who may be her father, her pimp, or both. He wants her to meet anacrobat who wants her for a trapeze act, but first she gets a visit from herlover and patron, Schon (Fritz Kortner), a newspaper publisher. Advertisement Schonis depressed. He is about to be married and wants to break off theirrelationship. He is more depressed when he finds Schigolch hiding behind thefurniture with a bottle. Lulu visits Schon at his office, where she is also anerotic magnet for the publisher's son (Franz Lederer), and for a Countess(Alice Roberts) who is one of the first obvious lesbians in the movies. Lulubecomes a dancer in a revue produced by the son. Schon (with fiancee and son)unwisely visits backstage. “I will not dance for that woman,” Lulu says,pointing to the fiancée. Attempting to shake her to her senses, Schon growsaroused, is found by his fiancee in a compromising situation, and marries Luluinstead. “For sheer erotic dynamism,” Kael wrote, those backstage scenes “havenever been equaled.” Thosewho love Lulu tend to die violently and unexpectedly. The look on her faceduring the accidental shooting of one character is fascinating: She seems to bestanding outside her own life, watching it happen. There is an episode on agambling ship where a disreputable Marquis attempts to sell her to an Egyptianpimp on the grounds that since she can't return to Germany anyway, she might aswell make the best of a bad situation. There is a flight by rowboat, and thenJack the Ripper materializes from the London fog. Atthis late stage in the movie we are asked to believe that Lulu, freezing andstarving and concerned for her old pimp (or father), has decided to commit herfirst act of sex for cash. When Jack the Ripper explains that he has no money,however, she likes his looks enough to invite him upstairs anyway. Not a goodjudge of character. Thissynopsis could apply equally to a great or a laughable film. Brooks makes it agreat one. She seems to stand outside “Pandora's Box.” She looks modern: Shedoesn't have the dated makeup of many silent stars, but could be aDemi MooreorWinona Ryder, electronically inserted into old scenes by computer. As shecareens from one man to another, the only constant factor is her will: Shewants to party, she wants to make love, she wants to drink, she wants to tellmen what she wants, and she wants to get it. There is no other motive than herdesire: Not money, not sex, just selfishness. It could get ugly, but she makesit look like fun. You can't get something for nothing, but if you can put offpaying the bill long enough, it may begin to feel like you can. Advertisement