I have always been drawn toward stories of exile andexpatriation, of people living as strangers in strange lands. I enjoy theirbittersweet longing for other places and other friends.Jeremy IronsplaysJohn, a character with some of those feelings, in “Chinese Box,”Wayne Wang'sfilm about the last days of British colonialism in Hong Kong. John is not a sentimentalist about the purpose of Britain's longdominion in its last Asian colony; his latest book is titled How to Make Moneyin Asia. But he has grown accustomed to Hong Kong, to his crowded little room,to his regular haunts, to his guitar-playing friend Jim (Ruben Blades), andespecially to Vivian (Gong Li), the bar girl he is in love with. He doesn'twant to give it up and go “home” to England--especially not after he learns hehas leukemia and can expect to live about six months. Advertisement “I wonder if I can hold out longer than the British,” he muses.John looks, as Jeremy Irons often does, underfed and vaguely ill. He has thesad dignity of the intelligent loser. He met Vivian in Beijing, where she was aprostitute; they might have married then, but “it slipped away,” and now sheowns a popular club, and is “engaged” to the man who bought it for her, Chang(Michael Hui). “You can spend your whole life waiting for Chang to marry you,”John warns, correctly guessing that Chang's reputation will not withstandmarriage to a hooker. But Chang leads her on, even posing for a fake “weddingphoto,” and besides--Chang is the future, and poor hangdog John is theimperialist past. The movie unfolds episodically. The screenplay byLarry GrossandJean-Claude Carriereis based on a story by Carriere, Wang and PaulTheroux--whose latest novel, Kowloon Tong, tells of another hapless Britonstranded by the change of guard. John wanders the streets, courts Vivian, hangsout with Jim, attends a final New Year's Eve party, takes video pictures and(after his diagnosis) begins to look around even more intensely, as if awaretime is running out on his eyes and ears. He sees a curious street sprite, a woman who conceals her facewith a scarf and runs scams. She sells everything from pirated videos to cansof pre-changeover Hong Kong air. Her name is Jean, and she is played by theHong Kong action starMaggie Cheungwith a defiant, improvisational air: Shemay be homeless and broke, but Hong Kong is a place of opportunity, and if sheis clever enough she will succeed. Jean is the most interesting character inthe film because she is unpredictable; John and Vivian seem locked into theirdestinies. Jean's scarf conceals a badly scarred face, and eventually Johngets her to tell her story to his video camera, by paying her. We begin to seea pattern emerging. Just as Vivian sees John as the past, the film sees Vivianas the past, and Jean as the future: In the emerging Hong Kong, glamorous bargirls and their rich tourist clients will be replaced by a tougher generation,wounded but resilient. (Jean's scars came after a teenage suicide attemptinspired by--yes, her British boyfriend.) One character in the movie describesthe departure of the British as “like a change of management in a departmentstore.” But Wayne Wang, born in Hong Kong, now an American director (“The JoyLuck Club,” “Smoke”), expressed more ambiguity in introducing the film at theToronto Film Festival: “I didn't realize how much the English had always been apart of my life; I was surprised, when the flag came down, by my sense of loss.”Perhaps Vivian will feel the same way when John dies. And Jean? Will she misshim? Perhaps, but for her tomorrow is always another day. Advertisement