In my review of “Little Women” (1994), I wrote, “The very titlesummons up preconceptions of treacly do-gooders in a smarmy children's story.”I was relieved to report that the movie itself was nothing of the sort; it wasa spirited and intelligent retelling of theLouisa May Alcottclassic. Now,alas, comes “Little Men,” which is indeed about treacly do-gooders in a smarmychildren's story. Although younger children may enjoy the movie on a simple anddirect level, there's little depth or texture to make it interesting forviewers over the age of, say, 10. It's all on one note. The adults are allnoble and enlightened, the boys are all basically good, and the story is allbasically a sunny, innocent fable. Advertisement The year is 1871. The “little women” have all grown up,according to a narrator who tells us far more than she should have to. Jo(Mariel Hemingway) has married Fritz Bhaer (Chris Sarandon), and together theyrun Plumfield School, a country home for wayward or orphaned boys. To Plumfield comes the Boston street urchin Nat (Michael Caloz)and, not long after, his best friend Dan (Ben Cook). There they find love,acceptance and lessons such as, “If a pie has 12 pieces and three-quarters ofthem are served at dinner, how many pieces are left?” All of the boys scribbleindustriously on their chalkboards to solve the puzzle, although since severalof them are later involved in a game of poker, they would seem to have thenecessary skills for mental calculation. Plumfield has limited funds and perhaps cannot afford to keepDan. Then Dan causes some problems, as when he sponsors the secret poker game(complete with beer and cigars), and it almost results in Plumfield beingburned down. Apart from such hitches, Plumfield is ideal, with pillow fightsscheduled every Saturday night, and the narrator informs us that “the feelingthat someone cared for him made that playroom seem like heaven for the homelesschild.” There is a certain complexity in Fritz, Jo's husband, who recalls thathis grandmother taught him to think before he spoke by cutting the end of histongue with her scissors. His idea of punishment is to have the boys cane him,a practice that will not withstand a single moment's more thought than themovie gives it. He rumbles suspiciously about Dan, but Dan “has the makings ofa fine man,” Jo declares, and although another boy is sent away for stealing,Dan survives the poker, beer and cigar scandal. There is a horse at Plumfield. Only one, untamed and unruly. Inan early scene, we see the hired man trying to tame it. We know with completecertainty that Dan was born to tame that horse, which is waiting (all saddledup) when the lad's rebellious spirit requires such a test. I have no doubt that Louisa May Alcott wrote somethingresembling this plot, although nothing in it sends me hurrying to thebookshelf. “Little Men” is an example of the kind of movie that wins approvalbecause of what it doesn't have, not for what it has. It is wholesome, blameless,positive, cheerful, well-photographed and nicely acted (especially by BenCook), and it has a PG rating. But, man, is it smarmy. Advertisement