“Raging Bull” is not a film about boxing but about a man withparalyzing jealousy and sexual insecurity, for whom being punished in the ringserves as confession, penance and absolution. It is no accident that thescreenplay never concerns itself with fight strategy. For Jake LaMotta, whathappens during a fight is controlled not by tactics but by his fears anddrives. Consumedby rage after his wife, Vickie, unwisely describes one of his opponents as “good-looking,”he pounds the man's face into a pulp, and in the audience a Mafia boss leansover to his lieutenant and observes, “He ain't pretty no more.” After thepunishment has been delivered, Jake (Robert De Niro) looks not at his opponent,but into the eyes of his wife (Cathy Moriarty), who gets the message. Advertisement MartinScorsese's 1980 film was voted in three polls as the greatest film of thedecade, but when he was making it, he seriously wondered if it would ever bereleased: “We felt like we were making it for ourselves.” Scorsese and De Nirohad been reading the autobiography of Jake LaMotta, the middleweight championwhose duels with Sugar Ray Robinson were a legend in the 1940s and '50s. TheyaskedPaul Schrader, who wrote “Taxi Driver,” to do a screenplay. The projectlanguished while Scorsese and De Niro made the ambitious but unfocused musical “NewYork, New York,” and then languished some more as Scorsese's drug use led to acrisis. De Niro visited his friend in the hospital, threw the book on his bed,and said, “I think we should make this.” And the making of “Raging Bull,” witha screenplay further sculpted byMardik Martin(“Mean Streets”), became therapyand rebirth for the filmmaker. Themovie won Oscars for De Niro and editorThelma Schoonmaker, and also wasnominated for best picture, director, sound, and supporting actor (Joe Pesci)and actress (Moriarty). It lost for best picture to “Ordinary People,” but timehas rendered a different verdict. ForScorsese, the life of LaMotta was like an illustration of a theme alwayspresent in his work, the inability of his characters to trust and relate withwomen. The engine that drives the LaMotta character in the film is not boxing,but a jealous obsession with his wife, Vickie, and a fear of sexuality. Fromthe time he first sees her, as a girl of 15, LaMotta is mesmerized by the cool,distant blond goddess, who seems so much older than her age, and in many shotsseems taller and even stronger than the boxer. Althoughthere is no direct evidence in the film that she has ever cheated on him, sheis a woman who at 15 was already on friendly terms with mobsters, who knew thescore, whose level gaze, directed at LaMotta during their first date, shows awoman completely confident as she waits for Jake to awkwardly make his moves.It is remarkable that Moriarty, herself 19, had the presence to so convincinglyportray the later stages of a woman in a bad marriage. Jakehas an ambivalence toward women that Freud famously named the “Madonna-whorecomplex.” For LaMotta, women are unapproachable, virginal ideals--until theyare sullied by physical contact (with him), after which they become suspect.During the film he tortures himself with fantasies that Vickie is cheating onhim. Every word, every glance, is twisted by his scrutiny. He never catches her,but he beats her as if he had; his suspicion is proof of her guilt. Advertisement Theclosest relationship in the film is between Jake and his brother Joey (JoePesci). Pesci's casting was a stroke of luck; he had decided to give up acting,when he was asked to audition after De Niro saw him in a B movie. Pesci'sperformance is the counterpoint to De Niro's, and its equal; their verbalsparring has a kind of crazy music to it, as in the scene where Jake loses thedrift of Joey's argument as he explains, “You lose, you win. You win, you win.Either way, you win.” And the scene where Jake adjusts the TV and accuses Joeyof cheating with Vickie: “Maybe you don't know what you mean.” The dialoguereflects the Little Italy of Scorsese's childhood, as when Jake tells his firstwife that overcooking the steak “defeats its own purpose.” Thefight scenes took Scorsese 10 weeks to shoot instead of the planned two. Theyuse, in their way, as many special effects as a science fiction film. Thesoundtrack subtly combines crowd noise with animal cries, bird shrieks and thegrating explosions of flashbulbs (actually panes of glass being smashed). Wearen't consciously aware of all we're listening to, but we feel it. Thefights are broken down into dozens of shots, edited by Schoonmaker into duelsconsisting not of strategy, but simply of punishing blows. The camera issometimes only inches from the fists; Scorsese broke the rules of boxingpictures by staying inside the ring, and by freely changing its shape and sizeto suit his needs--sometimes it's claustrophobic, sometimes unnaturallyelongated. Thebrutality of the fights is also new; LaMotta makes Rocky look tame. Blows areunderlined by thudding impacts on the soundtrack, and Scorsese uses spongesconcealed in the gloves and tiny tubes in the boxers' hair to deliver spurtsand sprays of sweat and blood; this is the wettest of boxing pictures, drenchedin the fluids of battle. One reason for filming in black and white wasScorsese's reluctance to show all that blood in a color picture. Themost effective visual strategy in the film is the use of slow motion to suggesta heightened awareness. Just as “Taxi Driver's” Travis Bickle saw the sidewalksof New York in slow motion, so LaMotta sees Vickie so intently that time seems toexpand around her. Normal movement is shot at 24 frames a second; slow motionuses more frames per second, so that it takes longer for them to be projected;Scorsese uses subtle speeds such as 30 or 36 frames per second, and weinternalize the device so that we feel the tension of narrowed eyes andmounting anger when Jake is triggered by paranoia over Vickie's behavior. Advertisement Thefilm is bookmarked by scenes in which the older Jake LaMotta, balding andoverweight, makes a living giving “readings,” running a nightclub, evenemceeing at a Manhattan strip club. It was De Niro's idea to interrupt thefilming while he put on weight for these scenes, in which his belly hangs overhis belt. The closing passages include Jake's crisis of pure despair, in whichhe punches the walls of his Miami jail cell, crying out, “Why! Why! Why!” Notlong after, he pursues his brother down a New York street, to embrace himtenderly in a parking garage, in what passes for the character'sredemption--that, and the extraordinary moment where he looks at himself in adressing room mirror and recites from “On the Waterfront” (“I coulda been acontender”). It's not De Niro doing Brando, as is often mistakenly said, but DeNiro doing LaMotta doing Brando doing Terry Malloy. De Niro could do a “better”Brando imitation, but what would be the point? “RagingBull” is the most painful and heartrending portrait of jealousy in thecinema--an “Othello” for our times. It's the best film I've seen about the lowself-esteem, sexual inadequacy and fear that lead some men to abuse women.Boxing is the arena, not the subject. LaMotta was famous for refusing to beknocked down in the ring. There are scenes where he stands passively, his handsat his side, allowing himself to be hammered. We sense why he didn't go down.He hurt too much to allow the pain to stop.