"Detour" is a movie so filled with imperfections thatit would not earn the director a passing grade in film school. This movie fromHollywood's poverty row, shot in six days, filled with technical errors andham-handed narrative, starring a man who can only pout and a woman who can onlysneer, should have faded from sight soon after it was released in 1945. And yetit lives on, haunting and creepy, an embodiment of the guilty soul of filmnoir. No one who has seen it has easily forgotten it. Advertisement "Detour" tells the story of Al Roberts, played by TomNeal as a petulant loser with haunted eyes and a weak mouth, who plays piano ina nightclub and is in love, or says he is, with a singer named Sue. Their song,significantly, is "I Can't Believe You Fell in Love With Me.” He wants toget married, she leaves for the West Coast, he continues to play piano, butthen: "When this drunk gave me a ten spot, I couldn't get very excited.What was it? A piece of paper crawling with germs.” Sohe hitchhikes to California, getting a lift in Arizona from a man namedHaskell, who tells him about a woman hitchhiker who left deep scratches on hishand: "There oughta be a law against dames with claws.” Haskell dies of aheart attack. Al buries the body, and takes Haskell's car, clothes, money andidentification; he claims to have no choice, because the police will in anyevent assume he murdered the man. Hepicks up a hitchhiker named Vera (Ann Savage), who “looked like she'd just beenthrown off the crummiest freight train in the world.” She seems to doze, thensits bolt upright and makes a sudden verbal attack: “Where'd you leave hisbody? Where did you leave the owner of this car? Your name's not Haskell!” Alrealizes he has picked up the dame with the claws. Haskellhad told them both the same unlikely story, about running away from home at 15after putting a friend's eye out in a duel (“My dad had a couple ofFrancoPrussian sabers”). InLos Angeles, Vera reads that Haskell's rich father is dying, and dreams up acon for Al to impersonate the long-lost son and inherit the estate. Waiting forthe old man to die, they sit in a rented room, drinking, playing cards andfighting, until Al finds himself with another corpse on his hands, once againin a situation that makes him look guilty of murder. Robertsis played byTom Nealas a sad sack who seems relieved to surrender to Vera (“Myfavorite sport is being kept prisoner”). Ann Savage plays Vera as a venomouscastrator. Every line is acid and angry; in an era before four-letter words,she lashes Al with “sucker” and “sap.” Of course Al could simply escape fromher. Sure, she has the key to the room, but any woman who kills a bottle ofbooze in a night can be dodged fairly easily. Al stays because he wants tostay. He wallows in mistreatment. Advertisement Themovie was shot on the cheap with B-minus actors, but it was directed by a manof qualities:Edgar G. Ulmer(1900-1972), a refugee from Hitler, who was anassistant to the great Murnau on “The Last Laugh” and “Sunrise,” and providedone of the links between German Expressionism, with its exaggerated lighting,camera angles and dramaturgy, and the American film noir, which added jazz andguilt. Thedifference between a crime film and a noir film is that the bad guys in crimemovies know they're bad and want to be, while a noir hero thinks he's a goodguy who has been ambushed by life. Al Roberts complains to us: “Whichever wayyou turn, fate sticks out a foot to trip you.” Most noir heroes are defeatedthrough their weaknesses. Few have been weaker than Roberts. He narrates themovie by speaking directly to the audience, mostly in a self-pitying whine.He's pleading his case, complaining that life hasn't given him a fair break. Mostcritics of “Detour” have taken Al's story at face value: He was unlucky inlove, he lost the good girl and was savaged by the bad girl, he was an innocentbystander who looked guilty even to himself. But the critic Andrew Brittonargues a more intriguing theory in Ian Cameron's Book of Film Noir. Heemphasizes that the narration is addressed directly to us: We're not hearingwhat happened, but what Al Roberts wants us to believe happened. It's a “spuriousbut flattering account,” he writes, pointing out that Sue the singer hardlyfits Al's description of her, that Al is less in love than in need of herpaycheck, and that his cover-up of Haskell's death is a rationalization for aneasy theft. For Britton, Al's version illustrates Freud's theory that traumaticexperiences can be reworked into fantasies that are easier to live with. Maybethat's why “Detour” insinuates itself so well--why audiences respond sostrongly. The jumps and inconsistencies of the narrative are nightmarepsychology; Al's not telling a story, but scurrying through the raw materials,assembling an alibi. Consider the sequence where Al buries Haskell's body andtakes his identity. Immediately after, Al checks into a motel, goes to sleep,and dreams of the very same events: It's a flashback side-by-side with theevents it flashes back to, as if his dream mind is doing a quick rewrite. Advertisement TomNeal makes Al flaccid, passive and self-pitying. That's perfect for thematerial. (In real life, Neal was as unlucky as Al; he was convicted of manslaughterin the death of his third wife.) Ann Savage's work is extraordinary: There isnot a single fleeting shred of tenderness or humanity in her performance asVera, as she snaps out her pulp dialogue (“What'd you do--kiss him with awrench?”). These are two pure types: the submissive man and the female hellion. Themovie's low budget is obvious. During one early scene, Ulmer uses thick fog tosubstitute for New York streets. He shoots as many scenes as possible in thefront seats of cars, with shabby rear-projection (the only meal Al and Verahave together is in a drive-in). For a flashback, he simply zooms in on Neal'sface, cuts the lights in the background, and shines a light in his eyes. Sometimesyou can see him stretching to make ends meet. When Al calls long-distance toSue, for example, Ulmer pads his running time by editing in stock footage oftelephone wires and switchboard operators, but can't spring for any footage ofSue actually speaking into the phone (Al does all the talking, and then Ulmercuts to her lamely holding the receiver to her ear). Andit's strange that the first vehicles to give lifts to the hitchhiking Al seemto have right-hand drives. He gets in on what would be the American driver'sside, and the cars drive off on the “wrong” side of the road. Was the movieshot in England? Not at all. My guess is that the negative was flipped. Ulmerpossibly shot the scenes with the cars going from left to right, then reflectedthat for a journey from the east to the west coasts, right to left would bemore conventional film grammar. Placing style above common sense is completelyconsistent with Ulmer's approach throughout the film. Dothese limitations and stylistic transgressions hurt the film? No. They are thefilm. “Detour” is an example of material finding the appropriate form. Twobottom-feeders from the swamps of pulp swim through the murk of low-budget noirand are caught gasping in Ulmer's net. They deserve one another. At the end, Alis still complaining: “Fate, for some mysterious force, can put the finger onyou or me, for no good reason at all.” Oh, it has a reason.