There is a story thatJames Cagneystood on his toes whileacting, believing he would project more energy that way. That sounds like apress release, but whatever he did, Cagney came across as one of the mostdynamic performers in movie history--a short man with ordinary looks whosecoiled tension made him the focus of every scene. He's best known for the gangster roles he played in the 1930s, adecade when he averaged almost four films a year for Warner Bros. From “PublicEnemy” (1931, with its famous grapefruit-in-the-face scene) to “The RoaringTwenties” (1939), he was Hollywood's leading crime star--even at the studiothat also hadEdward G. RobinsonandHumphrey Bogartunder contract. But hedidn't win his Oscar until 1942, when he played Broadway showman George M.Cohan in “Yankee Doodle Dandy.” Advertisement Maybethat was because Hollywood doesn't like to honor actors playing bad guys(Cagney was nominated but didn't win in 1938, as a gangster in “Angels WithDirty Faces”). Maybe it was because the nation was newly at war in 1942, andhappy to honor a patriotic biopic about the composer of “It's a Grand Old Flag.”Or maybe it was because Cagney threw himself into the role with such completejoy. Audiencesdidn't expect to see Cagney singing and dancing. He'd been a hoofer in hisstage days, but danced only once in a major film (“Footlight Parade,” 1933).Now he had the lead in the life story of one of the most famous song and dancemen of his day--a role everybody knewFred Astairehad turned down. Cagneywasn't a dancer by Astaire's standards, or a singer by anybody's, but he wassuch a good actor he could fake it: “Cagney can't really dance or sing,”observes the critic Edwin Jahiel, “but he acts so vigorously that it creates anillusion, and for dance-steps he substitutes a patented brand of robust, jerkywalks, runs and other motions.” Youcan sense that in an impromptu scene near the end of the movie. Cagney's Cohanis walking down a marble staircase at the White House when he suddenly startstapping and improvises all the way to the bottom. Cagney later said he dreamedthat up five minutes before the scene was shot: “I didn't consult with thedirector or anything, I just did it.” What'she doing at the White House? The movie is told in one of the most implausibleflashbacks in the history of musical biographies--a genre famous for thetortured ways it doubles back to tell showbiz stories. As the movie opens,Cohan has been called out of retirement to star as Franklin D. Roosevelt in “I'dRather Be Right,” a Broadway musical hailing the president as war cloudsgathered. He gets a telegram summoning him to the White House, and arrives onfoot, drenched, late at night. He's shown into the Oval Office, where anover-the-shoulder shot of FDR identifies him by his cigarette holder. Thepresident says he remembers seeing “The Four Cohans” in Boston 40 yearsearlier. Advertisement “Iwas a pretty cocky kid in those days,” Cohan muses. “Pretty cocky kid ... “ Thatsets off an entire film of flashbacks, narrated by Cohan, as he tells thepresident his life story. How he was born on the Fourth of July (“I was 6before I realized they weren't celebrating my birthday”). How he began as achild star, touring with his parents, Jerry (Walter Huston) and Nellie(Rosemary De Camp), and his sister, Josie (Jeanne Cagney, Cagney's own sister).How he got a swelled head after starring in “Peck's Bad Boy,” and how whilestill a teenager he played his own mother's father on the stage. Thatmemory sets up a famous sequence, as a young fan named Mary (Joan Leslie) comesbackstage to get advice from the apparently bearded and ancient Cohan, whocontinues the deception until suddenly breaking into a frenzied dance. Sheshrieks as he takes off his makeup (in showbiz, he tells her, “you'll have toget used to false eyebrows”) and soon he's writing a hit song for her (“Mary”)and they're getting married. Theseare all of course staples of showbiz biography--reality turned into myth, ifnot into press releases. Today's biopics focus on scandal and Freudian gloom,but in “Yankee Doodle Dandy” everything is upbeat, and even George's marriageproposal is couched in showbiz dialogue. No wonder that when the aging GeorgeM. Cohan himself was shown the movie, he liked it. (According to historian JayRobert Nash, his response was right in character: “Cohan grinned, shook hishead, and paid the inimitable Cagney his highest compliment: `My God, what anact to follow!' “) Itwas. As Pauline Kael said of Cagney, “Though he was born in 1899 and issomewhat portly here, he is so cocky and sure a dancer that you feel yourselfgrinning with pleasure at his movements. It's quite possible that he has moreelectricity than Cohan himself had.” Unlike Astaire, whose entire body wasinvolved in every movement, Cagney was a dancer who seemed to call on bodyparts in rotation. When he struts across the stage in the “Yankee Doodle Dandy”number, his legs are rubber but his spine is steel, and his torso is slantedforward so steeply we're reminded of Groucho Marx. Advertisement Thereare two currents to the story: patriotism and success. Cohan sees himself as aflag-waver, and the critics attack him for writing only lightweight musicalcomedies. Stung, he writes a serious play, but when it flops he apologizes andreturns to what his fans demand: sentiment, silliness and rousing nationalism.(Ironically, two of his lyrics supplied the titles for anti-war films: “Born onthe Fourth of July” and “Johnny Got His Gun.”) Everyscene follows the themes. He tries to enlist for World War I, is rejected forbeing too old, and protests, “This war is a coffee klatsch compared to what Igo through in the course of a musical show.” He does a tap dance in therecruiting office to demonstrate what he means, walks outside and catches twonotes from a marching band. And then, in one of those fantasies of creation sobeloved in films about musicians, he sits on an empty stage with a piano anddoodles with the notes until he discovers the opening for “Over There.” Themovie hurries from one obligatory scene to the next: retirement of parents,offscreen deaths of mother and sister, onscreen death of father (Walter Hustongoes out on a good exit line) and a montage of marquees from his hit shows.Finally comes the White House visit and, after Cohan has told the patient FDRhis entire life story, a private presentation of the Medal of Honor. There'slittle that's really original in “Yankee Doodle Dandy,” which was directed byMichael Curtiz, the gifted Warners workhorse whose credits included “Casablanca,”also released in 1942. The cinematography, by the legendaryJames WongHowe,uses the elegant compositions of figures that were common at the time, and thestaging includes two numbers where big studio treadmills are used to movegroups of extras, or keep them marching in place. Butthe greatness of the film resides entirely in the Cagney performance. EvenWalter Huston, one of the finest character actors of the era, is confined byroutine material. There is a sudden chemistry in a sequence involving FayTempleton, as a Broadway star Cohan wants to work with (the relatively unknownIrene Manningis stunning in the role). But mostly it's bio by thenumbers--except for Cagney's electricity. Hedoesn't dance so much as strut; he doesn't act so much as sell you his desireto entertain. In dialogue scenes, when other actors are talking, his eyes dartacross their faces, silently urging them to pick up the energy; he's likeMichael Jordanimpatiently willing his co-stars to keep up with him. And whenhe's in full sail, as in “Give My Regards to Broadway” or “Yankee Doodle Dandy,”it's like regarding a force of nature. Advertisement