If Brian De Palma were as good at rewriting as he is at visualstyle, “Snake Eyes” might have been a heck of a movie. He isn't, and it isn't.It's the worst kind of bad film: the kind that gets you all worked up and thenlets you down, instead of just being lousy from the first shot. Now about that first shot. It's wonderful. It's a Steadicam takethat runs on and on, seemingly forever.Nicolas Cageis onscreen for almostevery second of it, as a corrupt Atlantic City, N.J., cop who scuttlesbackstage and ringside at a heavyweight championship fight. He shakes down acreep, he places a bet, he has a chat with his old friend who is in charge ofsecurity, he talks on the phone with his wife and kid, he shmoozes with a sexyblond who sits down next to him, and he's sitting right in front of the U.S.Secretary of Defense when the man is assassinated. Advertisement I'd have to look at the film very carefully to be sure how longthis uninterrupted single shot is; it's possible that De Palma has hidden acouple of cuts in the middle of swish-pans. No matter; he steals the crown herefrom the famous long takes byMartin Scorsesein “GoodFellas” and Paul ThomasAnderson in “Boogie Nights,” and it's virtuoso work, as the camera follows Cageup and down stairs and he never quits talking. Cage is wonderful, all the extras and supporting actors hittheir marks right on time, the camera work (byStephen H. Burum) is perfectlycoordinated, the energy level is high, there's great excitement and I'mscribbling “terrific opening!” in my notes. Alas, slowly at first and then with stunning rapidity, the moviefalls apart. It has the elements for a good thriller, and De Palma still hassome surprises up his sleeve, but it's a downhill slog. The other key characters are played byGary Sinise, as a Navyofficer who has taken over command of the security at the prize fight; CarlaGugino, as a woman with secret information she wants to deliver to theSecretary of Defense andStan Shawas the defending champion. It's a small cast, in a story using a structure De Palma has hadfun with in the past, in films like “Blow Out” (1981). He shows an action andthen repeats it from various points of view, adding information until a jigsawpuzzle of information falls into place. Occasionally we'll see a moment thatdoesn't seem to fit, and then it will be explained later, and eventually theoutlines of a conspiracy become clear. There are nice ideas here, as when the Gugino character losesher glasses and has to flee from the bad guys without being able to seeanything other than a blur. And moments when De Palma brutally rips upeverything we thought we knew and makes us start all over again. But there arealso moments of dreadful implausibility. How likely is it, for example, insidea coliseum crawling with law enforcement, where thousands of fans have beenforcibly detained, that no one would notice the heavyweight champ beating up acop? De Palma supplies one more fine shot, looking straight down through theceilings of a series of hotel rooms until he finds the one he's looking for.But he's not on guard against lame dialogue, and at one point the desperateGugino, looking for a place to hide and trying to persuade a guy to take herupstairs to his room, actually says, “If you don't ... I'll bet ... somebodyelse will!” Then comes an ending so improbable it seems to have been fashionedas a film school exercise: Find the Mistakes in This Scene. I can't describe itin detail without giving away too much of the plot, but imagine a grand climaxin which a hurricane strikes Atlantic City and all of the key players findthemselves standing outdoors in the middle of it, on live TV.David Koepp, the writer, has been associated with somesuccessful movies (“The Paper,” “Jurassic Park,” De Palma's “Carlito's Way” and“Mission: Impossible”). What happened while he was writing this one? I wouldgenuinely be curious to know how a professional screenwriter and an importantdirector could both agree that “Snake Eyes” has a last act they're willing tosign their names to. Advertisement