Cabiria's eyebrows are straight, black horizontal lines,sketched above her eyes like a cartoon character's. Her shrug, her walk, herway of making a face, all suggest a performance. Of course a prostitute isalways acting in one way or another, but Cabiria seems to have a character inmind--perhaps Chaplin's Little Tramp, with a touch ofLucille Ball, who musthave been on Italian TV in the 1950s. It's as if Cabiria thinks she can waltzuntouched through the horrors of her world, if she shields herself with a comicpersona. Advertisement Or perhaps this actually is Cabiria and not a performance:Perhaps she is a waiflike innocent, a saint among the sinners. It is one of thepleasures of Giulietta Masina's performance that the guard never comes down. Asartificial as Cabiria's behavior sometimes seems, it always seems her own, andthis little woman carries herself proudly through the gutters of Rome. “Nights of Cabiria,” directed by Masina's husband, FedericoFellini, in 1957, won her the best actress award at Cannes, and the film wonthe Oscar for best foreign picture--his second in a row, after “La Strada” in 1956(he also won for “8 1/2” in 1963 and “Amarcord” in 1974). Strange, then, thatit is one of Fellini's least-known works--so unfamiliar that he was able torecycle a lot of the same underlying material in “La Dolce Vita” only threeyears later. Now the movie has been re-released in a restored 35-mm. print,with retranslated, bolder subtitles giving a better idea of the dialogue byPier Paolo Pasolini. There is also a 7 1/2-minute scene that was suppressed inearlier versions of the film. Seeing it in its new glory, with a score by Fellini's belovedcomposer Nina Rota, “Nights of Cabiria” plays like a plucky collaboration on anadult theme between Fellini and Chaplin. Masina deliberately based her Cabiriaon the Little Tramp, I think--most obviously with some business with anumbrella, and a struggle with the curtains in a nightclub. But while Chaplin'scharacter inhabited a world of stock villains and happy endings, Cabiriasurvives at the low end of Rome's prostitution trade. When she's picked up by afamous actor and he asks her if she works the Via Veneto, the center of Rome'sglitz, she replies matter-of-factly that, no, she prefers the ArcheologicalPassage, because she can commute there on the subway. Cabiria is a working girl. Not a sentimentalized one, as in “SweetCharity,” the Broadway musical and movie based on this story, but a toughcookie who climbs into truck cabs, gets in fights and hides in the bushesduring police raids. She's proud to own her own house--a tiny shack in anindustrial wasteland--and she dreams of sooner or later finding true romance,but her taste in men is dangerous, it's so trusting; the movie opens with hercurrent lover and pimp stealing her purse and shoving her into the river todrown. Advertisement By the nature of their work prostitutes can find themselvesalmost anywhere in a city, in almost any circle, on a given night. She'sadmitted to the nightclub, for example, under the sponsorship of the movie star(Alberto Lazzari). He picks her up after a fight with his fiancee, takes her tohis palatial villa, and then hides her in the bathroom when the fiancee turnsup unexpectedly (Cabiria spends the night with his dog). Later, seeking somekind of redemption, she joins another girl and a pimp on a visit to a reputedappearance by the Virgin Mary. And in the scene cut from the movie, sheaccompanies a good samaritan as he visits the homeless with food and gifts (sheis shocked to see a once-beautiful hooker crawl from a hole in the ground). All of these scenes are echoed in one way or another in “LaDolce Vita,” which sees some of the same terrain through the eyes of a gossipcolumnist (Marcello Mastroianni) instead of a prostitute. In both films, ahooker peeps through a door as a would-be client makes love with his mistress.Both have nightclub scenes opening with exotic ethnic dancers. Both have abogus appearance by the Virgin. Both have a musical sequence set in an outdoornightclub. And both have, as almost all Fellini movies have, a buxom slattern,a stone house by the sea, a procession and a scaffold seen outlined against thedawn. These must be personal touchstones of his imagination. Fellini was a poet of words and music. He never recorded thedialogue at the time he shot his films. Like most Italian directors, he dubbedthe words in later. On his sets, he played music during almost every scene, andyou can sense in most Fellini movies a certain sway in the way the characterswalk: Even the background extras seem to be hearing the same rhythm. Cabiriahears it, but often walks in counterpoint, as if to her own melody. She is astubborn sentimentalist who cannot believe the man she loved--the man she woulddo anything for--would try to drown her for 40,000 lira. (“They'd do it for5,000,” her neighbor assures her.) Advertisement She is a woman seeking redemption, a woman who works as a sinnerbut seeks inner spirituality. One night she happens into a performance by ahypnotist, is called onstage, and in the film's most extraordinary sequence isplaced in a trance (half vaudeville, half enchanted fantasy) in which shereveals her trust and sweetness. She also informs the rude audience that shehas a house and a bank account. A man named Oscar (Francois Perier) sees her on the stage andbegins to court her with flowers and quiet sincerity. He is touched by herinnocence and goodness, he says, and she believes him. At last she has found aman she can trust, to spend her whole life with. She is filled with joy, evenas her friends (and we in the audience) despair of her naivete. Fellini's roots as a filmmaker are in the postwar ItalianNeorealist movement (he worked for Rossellini on “Open City” in 1945), and hisearly films have a grittiness that is gradually replaced by the dazzlingphantasms of the later ones. “Nights of Cabiria” is transitional; it pointstoward the visual freedom of “La Dolce Vita” while still remaining attentive tothe real world of postwar Rome. The scene involving the good samaritan providesa framework to show people living in city caves and under bridges, but evenmore touching is the scene where Cabiria turns over the keys of her house tothe large and desperately poor family that has purchased it. These scenes provide an anchor, an undertow, that lends acontext to the lighter scenes, like the one where she is mocked by two ViaVeneto prostitutes who are more elegant (and much taller) than she is. Or thescene where she drives away in the actor's big American car while flaunting hernew client to her rival prostitutes (again, a scene Fellini would recycle in “LaDolce Vita”). In all of those scenes she remains in defiant character, and thenwe sense a certain softening toward the end. As she allows herself to believethat her future lies with Oscar, her eyebrows subtly soften their boldhorizontal slashes, and begin to curve above eyes and a face that seem morevulnerable. It's all in preparation for the film's unforgettable last shot, inwhich we see Cabiria's face in all its indomitable resolve. Of all his characters, Fellini once said, Cabiria was the onlyone he was still worried about. In 1992, when Fellini was given an honorarycareer Oscar, he looked down from the podium to Masina sitting in the front rowand told her not to cry. The camera cut to her face, showing her smilingbravely through her tears, and there was Cabiria. Advertisement