“Slums of Beverly Hills” was born to inspire a sitcom, andprobably a pretty good one, too. It's about a poor Jewish family who moves bynight from one sleazy apartment to another, jumping the rent but always stayingwithin Beverly Hills to take advantage of the educational system. Every movebrings them into range of a fresh supply of wacky supporting characters. The story is told through the eyes of Vivian (Natasha Lyonne),who will be a freshman in the fall and is alarmed that her breasts have, in thewords of her father, “sprouted overnight.” Also sprouting is her sexualcuriosity, which is enthusiastically encouraged by Eliot (Kevin Corrigan), thekid who lives across the hall of the latest pastel flea trap they've movedinto. “I dropped out of school because I wanted to join the work force,” hetells her. “Doing what?” “Selling pot.” Dad is Murray Abramovitz, a 65-year-oldcar salesman played byAlan Arkinas a man who seems to believe that if he hadto have kids when he was 50, he deserves everything he got. There are two boysin the family: Vivian's older brother Ben (David Krumholtz) and younger brotherRickey (Eli Marienthal), and they're all accustomed to being awakened at 3 inthe morning and told to pack their stuff because the rent is due and, besides,Murray has found a “much nicer place that doesn't rob you blind.” Vivian thinksshe hates her breasts. Her dad is always shouting at her to wear a bra, and themovie's best single shot is possibly the expression on her face when, under hisorders, she puts on a bra under a skimpy halter top, creating a result morekinky than modest. “You've been blessed,” the saleslady at the bra countertells her. “Breasts are wonderful. You'll see.” She doesn't. But then lifechanges radically for the Abramovitzes when Rita (Marisa Tomei), the troubleddaughter of Murray's rich brother, comes to stay with them. She's just goneover the wall of a rehab center, she's pregnant, and she enlists Vivian to helpher deal with the rat who got her pregnant--an actor who does “Man of La Mancha”as a one-man show. Advertisement You can see the sitcom possibilities. The film, written anddirected byTamara Jenkins, is pitched pretty firmly at that level of ambition:Broadly drawn characters, quick one-liners, squabbling family members, lots ofsex. Yet it also has a certain sweetness, a good-hearted feeling for thisfamily, which stays together and plugs away. Arkin is the key to the good feelings. He is a poor provider buta good father, who may skip out on the rent and be a lousy car salesman, but heinsists that his kids do their homework. One senses that his kids will grow upto be all right. Then there's his rich brother Mickey (Carl Reiner), who startspaying the rent in return for Murray taking his troublesome daughter off hishands. Mickey makes lots of money but has no class, and there's a painful scenein an airport restaurant where he blurts out crass insults and Murray--who hasbeen taking his handouts all his life--decides he's had enough. Lyonne has the film's most important role, and is the key to thecomedy. She does a good job of looking incredulous, and there's a lot in herlife to be incredulous about. She also has a nice pragmatic approach tosexuality, as in a scene where she consults a plastic surgeon about on-the-spotbreast reduction. There are a couple of scenes that simply don't work, and the worstinvolves some tentative fooling around between Murray and Rita. I didn'tbelieve it, I didn't like the way it played, and I think it should have beencut from the movie. It spoils the tone and introduces material that has noplace in a story like this. The movie also grinds to a halt when Murray calls ablack waiter “Jackson.” Not funny, and not likely. But basically I enjoyed “Slumsof Beverly Hills”--for the wisecracking, for the family squabbles, for thenotion of squatters who stake a claim in a Beverly Hills where money, afterall, is not the only currency.