Come on, read my future for me.You haven't got any.What do you mean? Your future is all used up. So speaks a fortune-tellingmadam, played byMarlene Dietrich, to the drunken sheriff of a border town,played byOrson Welles, in "Touch of Evil." Her words have a sad resonance, because Welles was never againto direct in Hollywood after making this dark, atmospheric story of crime andcorruption. It was named best film at the 1958 Brussels World Fair (Godardand Truffaut were on the jury), but in America it opened on the bottom half ofa double bill, failed, and put an end to Welles' prospects of working withinthe studio system. Yet the film has always been a favorite of those who enjoyvisual and dramatic flamboyance. “I'd seen the film four or five times before Inoticed the story,” the directorPeter Bogdanovichonce told his friend Orson. “Thatspeaks well for the story,” Welles rumbled sarcastically, but Bogdanovichreplied, “No, no--I mean I was looking at the direction.” Advertisement That might be the best approach for anyone seeing the film forthe first time: to set aside the labyrinthine plot, and simply admire what ison the screen. The movie begins with one of the most famous shots ever made,following a car with a bomb in its trunk for three minutes and 20 seconds. Andit has other virtuoso camera movements, including an unbroken interrogation ina cramped room, and one that begins in the street and follows the charactersthrough a lobby and into an elevator. The British critic Damian Cannon writesof its “spatial choreography,” in which “every position and movement latchestogether into a cogent whole.” Welles and his cinematographer,Russell Metty, were not simplyshowing off. The destinies of all of the main characters are tangled frombeginning to end, and the photography makes that point by trapping them in thesame shots, or tying them together through cuts that match and resonate. Thestory moves not in a straight line, but as a series of loops and coils. Some of those loops were removed when Universal Studios took thefilm from Welles and re-edited it, adding closeups and chopping scenes, so thatit existed for years in a confusing 95-minute version, and then belatedly in a108-minute version that still reflected the studio's meddling. Now at lastWelles' original intentions (explained in a 58-page memo to the studio) arereflected in a restored version that is three minutes longer and contains 50changes, some large, some small. This version was produced by Rick Schmidlinand edited by Oscar winnerWalter Murch, inspired by a crucial 1992 article inFilm Quarterly by Chicago critic Jonathan Rosenbaum. The story takes place in Los Robles, a seedy Mexican-Americanborder town (“border towns bring out the worst in a country”). It's a place ofbars, strip clubs and brothels, where music spills onto the street from everyclub. In the opening shot, we see a bomb placed in the trunk of a car, and thenthe camera cranes up and follows the car down a strip of seamy storefronts,before gliding down to eye level to pick up a strolling couple. They arenewlyweds, Mike and Susan Vargas (Charlton HestonandJanet Leigh); he's aMexican drug enforcement official. Advertisement At a border checkpoint, they're eventually joined by the doomedcar, which has been delayed by traffic and a herd of goats. Mike and Susan arecompleting the check when there's an offscreen explosion--and then finally acut, to the burning car lifting in the air. (I've always felt this cut ispremature; better to hear the offscreen explosion, stay on Mike and Susan asthey run to the burning car, and then cut.) Everyone awaits the arrival of Sheriff Hank Quinlan (Welles), amassive, sweaty, rumbling figure who looms over the camera. (Welles was notthat big when he made the picture, and used padding and camera angles toexaggerate his bulk.) Quinlan takes charge, “intuiting” that the explosion wascaused by dynamite. Vargas, a bystander, finds himself drawn into theinvestigation, to Quinlan's intense displeasure; the movie becomes acompetition between the two men, leading to the sheriff's efforts to frameVargas and his bride on drug and murder charges. Viewers familiar with the earlier version will not feel they areseeing a different film, but may be able to follow the plot more easily. Themost important changes take place in these opening minutes, when the stories ofthe Heston and Leigh characters are now intercut (the studio positioned all ofthe wife's hazards with a local gang after her husband's dealings withQuinlan). Another significant change: The opening shot is now seen withoutsuperimposed credits (they've been moved to the end), and with music from carradios and clubs, instead of Henry Mancini's title theme (Welles thought sourcemusic and sound effects would better establish the atmosphere). Welles fills his story with a meaty selection of supportingcharacters, including Quinlan's faithful sidekick Menzies (Joseph Calleia), theslimy local crime boss Grandi (Akim Tamiroff), the local madam (Dietrich), abutch gang leader (Mercedes McCambridge), an ineffectual district attorney (RayCollins, from “Citizen Kane”) and particularly a sexually obsessed motel nightclerk (Dennis Weaver), whose peculiar skittishness may have given ideas toAnthony Perkinsfor “Psycho” two years later. Advertisement These figures move back and forth across the border, through aseries of grim and grungy locations. Although the plot line is possible tofollow, the real point is the way Quinlan veers from the investigation tofollow his own agenda. He's prejudiced against Mexicans, resents Vargas for invadinghis turf, and supports “hunches” by planting evidence. When Vargas calls him onthe fraud, he vows to destroy him. As Vargas and Quinlan jockey for position in the investigation,Susan is endangered in scenes that work as a terrified counterpoint. Vargasunwisely checks his wife into a motel run by the local gang, and young thugsterrorize her. Her perils sometimes border on the ludicrous, especially in ascene where they shine a flashlight into her room. Later, a gang rape isimplied, but the movie curiously ignores or forgets its repercussions forSusan. Menzies, the deputy, has been faithful to Quinlan because thesheriff once stopped a bullet intended for him. The movie establishes hisgradual enlightenment, as Vargas proves that Quinlan planted evidence andframed innocent people. Why does Quinlan stoop so low? Thirty years earlier hisown wife was murdered, and the killer went free; now he boasts, “That was thelast killer that ever got out of my hands.” The final sequence involves the disillusioned Menzies wearing aconcealed microphone while prompting Quinlan into a confession. Vargas shadowsthem with a radio and tape recorder. This scene is visually effective, as thesheriff and deputy follow a garbage-strewn canal, but it's not logical. Vargaswades through water and climbs mountains of debris to stay within radio rangeof the talking men, when he could simply have hidden the tape recorder onMenzies. And he inexplicably leaves the radio turned up, so Quinlan can hearthe echo of his own voice. That works as showmanship even while it fails asstrategy. The surface themes of “Touch of Evil” are easy to spot, and theclash between the national cultures gets an ironic flip: Vargas reflects gringostereotypes while Quinlan embodies cliches about Mexican lawmen. But there maybe another theme lurking beneath the surface. Much of Welles' work was autobiographical, and the characters hechose to play (Kane, Macbeth, Othello) were giants destroyed by hubris. Nowconsider Quinlan, who nurses old hurts and tries to orchestrate this scenariolike a director, assigning dialogue and roles. There is a sense in whichQuinlan wants final cut in the plot of this movie, and doesn't get it. He'srunning down after years of indulgence and self-abuse, and his ego leads himinto trouble. Is there a resonance between the Welles character here and theman he became? The story of Welles' later career is of projects leftuncompleted and films altered after he had left them. To some degree, hischaracters reflected his feelings about himself and his prospects, and “Touchof Evil” may be as much about Orson Welles as Hank Quinlan. Welles broughtgreat style to his movies, embracing excess in his life and work as the price(and reward) of his freedom. Advertisement