The hero of John Waters' “Pecker” got his nickname as a kid, weare told, by pecking at his food. Uh, huh. And guys named Studs had fathers inthe tuxedo business. Pecker (Edward Furlong) works in a Baltimore sandwich shopand takes photos of the seamy side of life. He has an exhibit in therestaurant, a famous New York art dealer (Lili Taylor) happens to see it, andshe mounts a show of his work in her gallery. Of course all Manhattan is soon agog at the young genius,providing Waters with easy targets in the world of modern art. “Pecker's like ahumane Diane Arbus,” one critic gushes, when in fact he's more like just plainDiane Arbus. But “Pecker” isn't really about art so much as about the way thatfame and fortune upset Pecker's little world. Advertisement There is a strong streak of domesticity in Waters' plots (eventhe characters in “Pink Flamingos” have home lives, although you might need toleave the room if I described them). Pecker's dad (Mark Joy) operates a failingbar. His mom (Mary Kay Place) runs a thrift shop and sells the homeless “acomplete Easter outfit” for 25 cents. (Pecker assures one of her potentialcustomers that a winter coat is “flameproof--in case someone tries to set youon fire.”) His sister Tina (Martha Plimpton) is the emcee in a male go-go bar,issuing dire warnings against such misbehavior as “tea-bagging.” Hisgrandmother (Jean Schertler) has a stand in front of the house to sellsomething called “pit beef,” and has a Virgin Mary statue that talks uncannilylike one of Conan O'Brien's speaking TV pictures. And there is a kid sisternamed Little Crissy (Lauren Huilsey) who stuffs candy into her mouth as if sheonly feeds on payday; she continues the Waters tradition of at least oneaddictive character in every movie. Pecker is the most normal member of the family, I'd say. Hisgirlfriend Shelley (Christina Ricci) runs a laundromat, is an expert on stains,and sometimes slightly unzips the top of her jumper so Pecker can snap off afew quick shots. His best friend, Matt (Brendan Sexton III) is a compulsiveshoplifter who poses while committing crimes and suffers the most from Pecker'sfame; he complains, “If I can't shoplift, I don't want to be an artist!” Watersfollows these characters through their 15 minutes of fame without ever churningup very much interest in them. One problem is that Furlong's performancedoesn't project much heat or charisma, while the girlfriend played by Ricciseems constantly to be dampening her own. A simple casting switch, making Riccithe photographer and Furlong the boyfriend, might have improved the movieconsiderably. There's also a certain tension between the gentler new Watersand his anarchic past. In the scenes in the male strip bar, for example, wekeep waiting for Waters to break loose and shock us, and he never does, exceptwith a few awkward language choices. The miraculous statue of Mary could haveprovided comic possibilities, but doesn't. In the early scenes it's clear thatthe grandmother is a ventriloquist, but in the later scenes, when the statueactually does talk, the best it can come up with are some disconnected phrases;one is reminded of HAL 9000 as the memory is being disconnected. Better if Maryhad become an art critic. Advertisement Some scenes are so flat we squint a little at the screen, tryingto see why anyone thought they might be funny. After Shelley the girlfriendthinks she sees Pecker kissing the art dealer, for example, she fleesbroken-hearted into a voting booth, and Pecker follows her into the booth,where they have loud and active sex. This is supposed to shock the bourgeoisie,but it plays like a bad idea. The movie is filled with cameos, of which the most suggestive isthe artist/photographer Cindy Sherman. She eyes the pit-beef grandma as apossible subject and started me thinking maybe that would have been a betterapproach: Every member of the family is taken up by a different artist, and theVirgin Mary examines the results and says she doesn't know much about art, butshe knows what she likes. After all, she's been in a lot of good paintingsherself.