When I was small I liked to go to the movies because you couldfind out what adults did when there weren't any children in the room. As I grewup that pleasure gradually faded; the more I knew the less the charactersseemed like adults. Ernst Lubitsch's "Trouble in Paradise” reawakened myold feeling. It is about people who are almost impossibly adult, in thatfanciful movie way -- so suave, cynical, sophisticated, smooth and sure that alifetime is hardly long enough to achieve such polish. They glide. Advertisement Itis a comedy for three characters, plus comic relief in supporting roles.Herbert Marshall plays a gentleman jewel thief, Miriam Hopkins plays thecon-woman who adores him, and Kay Francis is the rich widow who thinks she canbuy him but is content to rent him for a while. They live in a movie world ofexquisite costumes, flawless grooming, butlers, grand hotels in Venice,penthouses in Paris, cocktails, evening dress, wall safes, sweeping staircases,nightclubs, the opera and jewelry, a lot of jewelry. What is curious is howreal they manage to seem, in the midst of the foppery. Theromantic triangle was the favorite plot device of Lubitsch. The critic Greg S.Faller notes that the German-born director liked stories in which "anessentially solid relationship is temporarily threatened by a sexual rival.”Here it's clear from the beginning that the gentleman thief Gaston Monescu(Marshall) and the lady pickpocket Lily Vautier (Hopkins) are destined for oneanother -- not only because they like each other, but because their professionsmake it impossible to trust civilians. When Gaston meets Mariette Colet(Francis), it is to return the purse he has stolen from her and claim thereward. She is attracted to him, and he gracefully bows to her lust, but thereis an underlying sobriety: He knows it cannot last, and in a way so does she. Thesexual undertones are surprisingly frank in this pre-Code 1932 film, and weunderstand that none of the three characters is in any danger of mistaking sexfor love. Both Lily and Mariette know what they want, and Gaston knows that hehas it. His own feelings for them are masked beneath an impenetrable veneer ofsophisticated banter. HerbertMarshall takes ordinary scenes and fills them with tension because of the wayhe seems to withhold himself from the obvious emotional scripting. He was 42when he made the film, handsome in a subdued rather than an absurd way, every darkhair slicked close to his scalp, with a slight stoop to his shoulders thatmakes him seem to be leaning slightly toward his women, or bowing. His walk isdeliberate and noticeably smooth; he lost a leg in World War I, had a woodenone fitted, and practiced so well at concealing his limp that he seems to floatthrough a room. Advertisement Hegives a droll, mocking richness to the dialogue bySamson Raphaelson,Lubitsch's favorite collaborator. He seems to know he's in a drawing roomcomedy, and the actresses speak in tune with him. There are exchanges soteasing that they're like verbal foreplay. Consider the early scene in whichGaston, having stolen some jewels, returns to his hotel suite to host a privatedinner for Lily. He poses as a baron. She poses as a countess. "Youknow,” says Lily, "when I first saw you, I thought you were an American.” "Thankyou,” Gaston gravely replies. "Someonefrom another world, so entirely different. Oh! One gets so tired of one's ownclass -- princes and counts and dukes and kings! Everybody talking shop. Alwaystrying to sell jewelry. Then I heard your name and found out you were just oneof us.” "Disappointed?” "No,proud. Very proud.” Andthey kiss. But soon it is revealed that they have both been busily stealingeach other's possessions. She has his wallet, he has her pin, and it's like agame of strip poker in which, as each theft is revealed, their excitementgrows, until finally Lily realizes she has been unmasked by another criminal,and cries out, "Darling! Tell me, tell me all about yourself. Who are you?” Heis one of the boldest thieves in the world. He meets Mariette (Francis) bystealing her diamond-encrusted purse and then returning it. He insinuateshimself into her trust, advising her on lipstick and on her choice of lovers(of course he has read the love letter in the handbag). The dialogue is daringin its insinuations: "IfI were your father, which fortunately I am not,” he says, "and you madeany attempt to handle your own business affairs, I would give you a goodspanking -- in a business way, of course.” Advertisement "Whatwould you do if you were my secretary?” "Thesame thing.” "You'rehired.” Turnup the heat under this dialogue, and you'd have screwball comedy. It'stantalizing the way Lubitsch and his actors keep it down to a sensuous simmer.In the low, caressing tones of Marshall and Francis, they're toying with thewords -- they're in on the joke. And Mariette is neither a spoiled rich womannor a naive victim. She is a woman of appetites and the imagination to takeadvantage of an opportunity. She probably doesn't believe, even then, that thisman is who he says. He has a way of smiling while he lies, to let his victimshave a peek at the joke. But Mariette is an enormously attractive woman, notleast because of her calm self-assurance, and he likes her even as he deceivesher. Theirfirst meeting is a splendid example of "the Lubitsch Touch,” a pressagent's phrase that stuck, maybe because audiences sensed that the director didhave a special touch, a way of transforming material through style. Whathappens, and you are surprised to sense it happening, is that in a drawing roomcomedy of froth and inconsequence, you find that you believe in the charactersand care about them. ErnstLubitsch (1892-1947), short, plain, cigar-chewing, beloved, was born in Berlin,was on the stage by the time he was 19, worked as a silent film comedian, andin 1915 began to direct. His silent films often starred Pola Negri, who playedMadame DuBarry in "Passion” (1919), which made their reputations inAmerica. Mary Pickford brought him to Hollywood in 1923, where he quicklybecame successful; his best silent films include a version of Oscar Wilde's"Lady Windermere's Fan” (1925) that the critic Andrew Sarris arguesactually improves on the original ("it seems incredible”) by droppingWilde's epigrams, "which were largely irrelevant to the plot.” Lubitschruled at Paramount in the late 1920s and 1930s (he was head of the studio for ayear), embracing the advent of sound with a series of musicals that oftenstarred Jeannette Macdonald. "Trouble in Paradise" is generallyconsidered his best film, but there are advocates for his version of NoelCoward's "Design for Living" (1933), with Gary Cooper,Fredric Marchand Miriam Hopkins; "Ninotchka" (1939), with Garbo, a definitiveadult; "The Shop Around the Corner" (1940), withJames StewartandMargaret Sullavan as bickering co-workers who don't realize they're romanticpenpals; and "To Be or Not to Be" (1942), with Jack Benny and CaroleLombard in a comedy aimed squarely at Hitler. Advertisement Because"The Lubitsch Touch” was coined by a publicist, no one, least of allLubitsch, ever really defined it. It is often said to refer to his fluidcamera. Watching "Trouble in Paradise,” what I sensed even more was theway the comic material is given dignity by the actors; the characters have aweight of experience behind them that suggests they know life cannot be playedindefinitely for laughs. Andrew Sarris, trying to define the Touch, said it was"a counterpoint of poignant sadness during a film's gayest moments.”Consider the way Gaston and Mariette say goodbye for the last time, after it isclear to both of them that he loved her, and stole from her. How gallantly theytry to make a joke of it.Dialogue quoted from Tim Dirks' great films site atwww.filmsite.org/films