No, I never loved you Walter -- not you or anybody else.I'm rotten to the heart. I used you, just as you said. That's all you evermeant to me. Until a minute ago, when I couldn't fire that second shot.Is she kidding? Walter thinks so: "Sorry, baby. I'm notbuying.” The puzzle ofBilly Wilder's "Double Indemnity,” the enigma thatkeeps it new, is what these two people really think of one another. They strutthrough the routine of a noir murder plot, with the tough talk and the cold sexplay. But they never seem to really like each other all that much, and theydon't seem that crazy about the money, either. What are they after? Advertisement Walter(Fred MacMurray) is Walter Neff ("two f's--like in Philadelphia”). He's aninsurance salesman, successful but bored. The woman is Phyllis Dietrichson(Barbara Stanwyck), a lazy blond who met her current husband by nursing hiswife--to death, according to her stepdaughter. Neff pays a call one day torenew her husband's automobile insurance. He's not at home, but she is, wrappedin a towel and standing at the top of a staircase. "I wanted to see heragain,” Neff tells us. "Close, and without that silly staircase betweenus.” Thestory was written in the 1930s by James M. Cain, the hard-boiled author ofThe Postman Always Rings Twice.A screenplay kicked around Hollywood,but the Hays Office nixed it for "hardening audience attitudes towardcrime.” By 1944, Wilder thought he could film it. Cain wasn't available, so hehiredRaymond Chandlerto do the screenplay. Chandler, whose novelThe Big SleepWilder loved, turned up drunk, smokeda smelly pipe, didn't know anything about screenplay construction, but couldput a nasty spin on dialogue. Togetherthey eliminated Cain's complicated end-game and deepened the relationshipbetween Neff and Keyes (Edward G. Robinson), the claims manager at theinsurance company. They told the movie in flashback, narrated by Neff, whoarrives at his office late at night, dripping blood, and recites into aDictaphone. The voice-over worked so well that Wilder used it again in"Sunset Boulevard” (1950), which was narrated by a character who isalready dead the first time he speaks. No problem; "Double Indemnity” originallyended with Neff in the gas chamber, but that scene was cut because an earlierone turned out to be the perfect way to close the film. Advertisement Todescribe the story is to miss the nuances that make it tantalizing. Phylliswants Walter to sell her husband a $50,000 double indemnity policy, and thenarrange the husband's "accidental” death. Walter is willing, ostensiblybecause he's fallen under her sexual spell. They perform a clever substitution.The husband, on crutches with a broken leg, is choked to death before a trainride. Taking his place, Neff gets on the train and jumps off. They leave thehusband's body on the tracks. Perfect. But later that night, going to thedrugstore to establish an alibi, Neff remembers, "I couldn't hear my ownfootsteps. It was the walk of a dead man.” Aclever crime. But why did they do it? Phyllis was bored and her husband hadlost a lot of money in the oil business, so she had a motive. But it's as ifthe idea of murder materialized only because Neff did -- right there in herliving room, talking about insurance. On their third meeting, after a lot ofaggressive wordplay, they agree to kill the husband and collect the money. Iguess they also make love; in 1944 movies you can't be sure, but if they do,it's only the once. Why?Is Neff blinded by lust and greed? That's the traditional reading of the film:weak man, strong woman. But he's aloof, cold, hard, terse. He always calls her"baby,” as if she's a brand, not a woman. His eyes are guarded and hisposture reserved. He's not moonstruck. And Phyllis? Cold, too. But later in thefilm she says she cares more about "them” than about the money. We canbelieve the husband died for money if they both seem driven by greed, butthey're not. We can believe he died because of their passion, but it seems morelike a pretense, and fades away after the murder. Standingback from the film and what it expects us to think, I see them engaged not inromance or theft, but in behavior. They're intoxicated by their personalstyles. Styles learned in the movies, and from radio and the detectivemagazines. It's as if they were invented byBen Hechtthrough his crimedialogue. Walter and Phyllis are pulp characters with little psychologicaldepth, and that's the way Billy Wilder wants it. His best films are sardoniccomedies, and in this one, Phyllis and Walter play a bad joke on themselves. Advertisement Moregenuine emotion is centered elsewhere. It involves Neff's fear of discovery,and his feelings for Keyes. Edward G. Robinson plays the inspector as a nonconformistwho loosens his tie, reclines on the office couch, smokes cheap cigars, andwants to make Neff his assistant. He's a father figure, or more. He's alsosmart, and eventually he figures out that a crime was committed -- and exactlyhow it was committed. His investigation leads to two scenes of queasy tension.One is when Keyes invites Neff to his office, and then calls in a witness whosaw Neff on the train. Another is when Keyes calls unexpectedly at Neff'sapartment, when Neff expects Phyllis to arrive momentarily -- andincriminatingly. DoesKeyes suspect Neff? You can't really say. He arranges situations in whichNeff's guilt might be discovered, but they're part of his routine techniques;perhaps only his subconscious, "the little man who lives in my stomach,”suspects Neff. Theend of the film is curious (it's the beginning, too, so I'm not giving itaway). Why does the wounded Neff go to the office and dictate a confession ifhe still presumably hopes to escape? Because he wants to be discovered byKeyes? Neff tells him, "You know why you couldn't figure this one, Keyes?I'll tell you. Because the guy you were looking for was too close -- rightacross the desk from you.” Keyes says, "Closer than that, Walter,” andthen Neff says, "I love you, too.” Neff has been lighting Keyes' smokesall during the movie, and now Keyes lights Neff's. You see why a gas chamberwould have been superfluous. Wilder's"Double Indemnity” was one of the earlier films noir. The photography byJohn Seitzhelped develop the noir style of sharp-edged shadows and shots,strange angles and lonely Edward Hopper settings. It's the right fit for thehard urban atmosphere and dialogue created by Cain, Chandler, and the otherwriters Edmund Wilson called "the boys in the back room.” "DoubleIndemnity” has one of the most familiar noir themes: The hero is not acriminal, but a weak man who is tempted and succumbs. In this "double”story, the woman and man tempt one another; neither would have acted alone.Both are attracted not so much by the crime as by the thrill of committing itwith the other person. Love and money are pretenses. The husband's death turnsout to be their one-night stand. Advertisement Wilder,born in Austria in 1906, who arrived in America in 1933 and is still aHollywood landmark, has an angle on stories like this. He doesn't go for theobvious arc. He isn't interested in the same things the characters areinterested in. He wants to know what happens to them after they do what theythink is so important. He doesn't want truth, but consequences. Fewother directors have made so many films that were so taut, savvy, cynical and,in many different ways and tones, funny. After a start as a screenwriter, hisdirectorial credits include "The Lost Weekend,” "Sunset Boulevard,”"Stalag 17,” "Sabrina,” "The Seven Year Itch,” "Witness forthe Prosecution,” "Some Like It Hot,” "The Apartment” and "TheFortune Cookie.” I don't like lists but I can't stop typing. "DoubleIndemnity” was his third film as a director. That early in his career, he wasalready cocky enough to begin a thriller with the lines, "I killed him formoney -- and for a woman. I didn't get the money. And I didn't get the woman.”And end it with the hero saying "I love you, too” to Edward G. Robinson.