There is no movie musical more fun than "Singin' in theRain,” and few that remain as fresh over the years. Its originality is all themore startling if you reflect that only one of its songs was written new forthe film, that the producers plundered MGM's storage vaults for sets and props,and that the movie was originally ranked below "An American in Paris,”which won a best picture Oscar. The verdict of the years knows better thanOscar: "Singin' in the Rain” is a transcendent experience, and no one wholoves movies can afford to miss it. Advertisement Thefilm is above all lighthearted and happy. The three stars--Gene Kelly, DonaldO'Connorand 19-year-old Debbie Reynolds--must have rehearsed endlessly fortheir dance numbers, which involve alarming acrobatics, but in performancethey're giddy with joy. Kelly's soaking-wet "Singin' in the Rain” dancenumber is "the single most memorable dance number on film,”Peter Wollenwrote in a British Film Institute monograph. I'd call it a tie with DonaldO'Connor's breathtaking "Make 'em Laugh” number, in which he manhandleshimself like a cartoon character. Kellyand O'Connor were established stars when the film was made in 1952. DebbieReynolds was a newcomer with five previous smaller roles, and this was her bigbreak. She has to keep up with two veteran hoofers, and does; note thedetermination on her pert little face as she takes giant strides when they allmarch toward a couch in the "Good Morning” number. "Singin'in the Rain” pulses with life; in a movie about making movies, you can sensethe joy they had making this one. It was co-directed byStanley Donen, thenonly 28, and Kelly, who supervised the choreography. Donen got an honoraryOscar in 1998, and stole the show by singing "Cheek to Cheek” whiledancing with his statuette. He started in movies at 17, in 1941, as anassistant to Kelly, and they collaborated on "On the Town” (1949) when hewas only 25. His other credits include "Funny Face” and "Seven Bridesfor Seven Brothers.” Oneof this movie's pleasures is that it's really about something. Of course it'sabout romance, as most musicals are, but it's also about the film industry in aperiod of dangerous transition. The movie simplifies the changeover fromsilents to talkies, but doesn't falsify it. Yes, cameras were housed in soundproofbooths, and microphones were hidden almost in plain view. And, yes, previewaudiences did laugh when they first heard the voices of some famous stars;Garbo Talks!” the ads promised, but her co-star, John Gilbert, would have beenbetter off keeping his mouth shut. The movie opens and closes at sneakpreviews, has sequences on sound stages and in dubbing studios, and kids theway the studios manufactured romances between their stars. Advertisement WhenproducerArthur Freedand writers Betty Comdon andAdolph Greenwere assignedto the project at MGM, their instructions were to recycle a group of songs thestudio already owned, most of them written by Freed himself, with Nacio HerbBrown. Comdon and Green noted that the songs came from the period when silentfilms were giving way to sound, and they decided to make a musical about thebirth of the talkies. That led to the character of Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen),the blond bombshell with the voice like fingernails on a blackboard. Hagenin fact had a perfectly acceptable voice, which everyone in Hollywood knew;maybe that helped her win an Oscar nomination for best supporting actress.("Singin' “ was also nominated for its score, but won neither Oscar--aslow start for a film that placed 10th on the American Film Institute list of100 great films, and was voted the fourth greatest film of all time in theSight & Sound poll.) She plays a caricatured dumb blond, who believes she'sin love with her leading man, Don Lockwood (Kelly), because she read it in afan magazine. She gets some of the funniest lines ("What do they think Iam? Dumb or something? Why, I make more money than Calvin Coolidge puttogether!”). Kellyand O'Connor had dancing styles that were more robust and acrobatic than thegrandmaster,Fred Astaire. O'Connor's "Make 'em Laugh” number remains oneof the most amazing dance sequences ever filmed -- a lot of it in longer takes.He wrestles with a dummy, runs up walls and does backflips, tosses his bodyaround like a rag doll, turns cartwheels on the floor, runs into a brick walland a lumber plank, and crashes through a backdrop. Kellywas the mastermind behind the final form of the "Singin' in the Rain”number, according to Wollen's study. The original screenplay placed it later inthe film and assigned it to all three stars (who can be seen singing ittogether under the opening titles). Kelly snagged it for a solo and moved it upto the point right after he and young Kathy Selden (Reynolds) realize they'refalling in love. That explains the dance: He doesn't mind getting wet, becausehe's besotted with romance. Kelly liked to design dances that grew out of theprops and locations at hand. He dances with the umbrella, swings from alamppost, has one foot on the curb and the other in the gutter, and in the scene'shigh point, simply jumps up and down in a rain puddle. Advertisement Otherdance numbers also use real props. Kelly and O'Connor, taking elocution lessonsfrom a voice teacher, do "Moses Supposes” while balancing on tabletops andchairs (it was the only song written specifically for the movie). "GoodMorning” uses the kitchen and living areas of Lockwood's house (ironically, aset built for a John Gilbert movie). Early in the film, Kelly climbs a trolleyand leaps into Kathy's convertible. Outtakes of the leap show Kelly missing thecar on one attempt and landing in the street. Thestory line is suspended at the two-thirds mark for the movie's set piece,"Broadway Ballet,” an elaborate fantasy dance number starring Kelly andCyd Charisse. It's explained as a number Kelly is pitching to the studio, abouta gawky kid who arrives on Broadway with a big dream ("Gotta Dance!”), andclashes with a gangster's leggy girlfriend. MGM musicals liked to stop the showfor big production numbers, but it's possible to enjoy "Broadway Ballet”and still wonder if it's really needed; it stops the headlong energy dead inits tracks for something more formal and considered. Theclimax ingeniously uses strategies that the movie has already planted, to shootdown the dim Lina and celebrate fresh-faced Kathy. After a preview audiencecheers Lina's new film (her voice dubbed by Kathy), she's trapped into singingonstage. Kathy reluctantly agrees to sing into a backstage mike while Linamouths the words, and then her two friends join the studio boss in raising thecurtain so the audience sees the trick. Kathy flees down the aisle--but then,in one of the great romantic moments in the movies, she's held in foregroundcloseup while Lockwood, onstage, cries out, "Ladies and gentlemen, stopthat girl! That girl running up the aisle! That's the girl whose voice youheard and loved tonight! She's the real star of the picture--Kathy Selden!”It's corny, but it's perfect. Advertisement Themagic of "Singin' in the Rain” lives on, but the Hollywood musical didn'tlearn from its example. Instead of original, made-for-the-movies musicals likethis one (and "An American in Paris,” and "The Band Wagon”),Hollywood started recycling pre-sold Broadway hits. That didn't work, becauseBroadway was aiming for an older audience (many of its hits were showcases forageless female legends). Most of the good modern musicals have drawn directlyfrom new music, as "A Hard Day's Night,” "Saturday Night Fever” and"Pink Floyd the Wall” did. Meanwhile, "Singin' in the Rain” remainsone of the few movies to live up to its advertising. "What a gloriousfeeling!” the posters said. It was the simple truth.