Conscience. That stuff can drive you nuts.So says Terry Malloy, the longshoreman who testifies against hisunion in “On the Waterfront.” The line, said byMarlon Brando, resonates allthrough the picture because the story is about conscience--and so is the storybehind the story. This was the film made in 1954 byElia Kazanafter he agreedto testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee, named formerassociates who were involved with the Communist Party and became a pariah inleft-wing circles. Advertisement “Onthe Waterfront” was, among other things, Kazan's justification for his decisionto testify. In the film, when a union boss shouts, “You ratted on us, Terry,”the Brando character shouts back: “I'm standing over here now. I was rattin' onmyself all those years. I didn't even know it.” That reflects Kazan's beliefthat communism was an evil that temporarily seduced him, and had to be opposed.Brando's line finds a dramatic echo in A Life, Kazan's 1988 autobiography,where he writes of his feelings after the film won eight Oscars, including bestpicture, actor, actress and director: “I was tasting vengeance that night andenjoying it. `On the Waterfront' is my own story; every day I worked on thatfilm, I was telling the world where I stood and my critics to go and - - - -themselves.” Inthat statement you can feel the passion that was ignited by the HUAC hearingsand the defiance of those who named names, or refused to. For some viewers, theburied agenda of “On the Waterfront” tarnishes the picture; the critic JonathanRosenbaum told me he could “never forgive” Kazan for using the film to justifyhimself. But directors make films for all sorts of hidden motives, some noble,some shameful, and at least Kazan was open about his own. And he made apowerful and influential movie, one that continued Brando's immeasurableinfluence on the general change of tone in American movie acting in the 1950s. “Ifthere is a better performance by a man in the history of film in America, Idon't know what it is,” Kazan writes in his book. If you changed “better” to “moreinfluential,” there would be one other performance you could suggest, and thatwould be Brando's work in Kazan's “A Streetcar Named Desire” (1951). In thoseearly films, Brando cut through decades of screen mannerisms and provided afresh, alert, quirky acting style that was not realism so much as a kind ofheightened riff on reality. He became famous for his choices of physicalgestures during crucial scenes (and as late as “The Godfather,” he was stillfinding them--the cat in his lap, the spray gun in the tomato patch). Advertisement In“On the Waterfront,” there's a moment when Terry goes for a walk in the parkwith Edie (Eva Marie Saint), the sister of a man who has been thrown off a rooffor talking to crime investigators. She drops a glove. He picks it up, andinstead of handing it back, he pulls it on over his own workers' hands. A smallpiece of business on the edge of the shot, but it provides texture. Andlook at the famous scene between Terry and his brother, Charley (Rod Steiger),in the back seat of a taxi. This is the “I coulda been a contender” scene, andit has been parodied endlessly (most memorably byRobert De Niroin “RagingBull”). But it still has its power to make us feel Terry's pain, and even thepain of Charley, who has been forced to pull a gun on his brother. Here isKazan on Brando: “... what was extraordinary about his performance, I feel, is the contrast ofthe tough-guy front and the extreme delicacy and gentle cast of his behavior.What other actor, when his brother draws a pistol to force him to do somethingshameful, would put his hand on the gun and push it away with the gentleness ofa caress? Who else could read `Oh, Charley!' in a tone of reproach that is soloving and so melancholy and suggests the terrific depth of pain?” Kazan'sscreenplay was by Budd Schulberg, and his producer wasSam Spiegel, one of thegreat independent buccaneers (his next production after “Waterfront” was “TheBridge on the River Kwai”). Spiegel at first proposedFrank Sinatrafor therole of Terry Malloy, and Kazan agreed: “He spoke perfect Hobokenese.” Theyoung, wiry Sinatra would have been well-cast, but then Spiegel decided thatBrando, then a much bigger star, could double the budget available for thefilm. Kazan had already discussed costumes with Sinatra and felt bad about theswitch, but Sinatra “let me off easy.” Thefilm was based on the true story of a longshoreman who tried to overthrow acorrupt union. In life, he failed; in the film, he succeeds, and today theending of “On the Waterfront” feels too stagy and upbeat. The film was shot onlocation in Hoboken, N.J., on and near the docks, with real longshoremenplaying themselves as extras (sometimes they're moved around in groups thatlook artificially blocked). Brando plays a young ex-prizefighter, now alongshoreman given easy jobs because Charley is the right-hand man of thecorrupt boss, Johnny Friendly (Lee J. Cobb). After he unwittingly allowshimself to be used to set up the death of Edie's brother, he starts to questionthe basic assumptions of his life--including his loyalty to Charley and Johnny,who after all ordered him to take a dive in his big fight in Madison SquareGarden. Advertisement Theother major character is a priest (Karl Malden), who tries to encouragelongshoremen to testify against corruption. After one rebel is deliberatelycrushed in the hold of a ship, the priest makes a speech over his body (“if youdon't think Christ is down here on the waterfront, you got another think coming”).It would have been the high point of another kind of film, but against Brando'smore sinuous acting, it feels like a set piece. EvaMarie Saint makes a perfect foil for Brando, and the two actors have a famousscene in a bar where he reveals, almost indirectly, that he likes her, and sheturns the conversation from romance to conscience. At one point Kazan and hiscameraman,Boris Kaufman, frame her pale face and hair in the upper-right-handcorner of the screen, with Brando in lower center, as if a guardian angel ishovering above him. Thebest scenes are the most direct ones. Consider the way Brando refuses tocooperate with investigators who seek him out on the docks, early in the film.And the way he walks around on the rooftop where he keeps his beloved pigeons--litheand catlike. Steiger is invaluable to the film, and in the famous taxiconversation, he brings a gentleness to match Brando's: The two brothers are inmourning for the lost love between them. Schulberg'sscreenplay straddles two styles--the emerging realism and the stylized gangsterpicture. To the latter tradition belong lines like “He could sing, but hecouldn't fly,” when the squealer is thrown off the roof. Tothe former: “You know how the union works? You go to a meeting, you make a motion,the lights go out, then you go out.” Brando's “contender” speech is so famousit's hard to see anew, but watch the film again and you feel the reality of thesadness between the two men, and the simple words that express it. “Onthe Waterfront” was nominated for 11 Oscars and won eight. Ironically, theother three nominations were all for best supporting actor, where Cobb, Maldenand Steiger split the vote. Today the story no longer seems as fresh; both thefight against corruption and the romance fall well within ancient movieconventions. But the acting and the best dialogue passages have an impact thathas not dimmed; it is still possible to feel the power of the film and ofBrando and Kazan, who changed American movie acting forever. Advertisement