How clearly I recall standing in the rain outside the Co-EdTheater near the campus of the University of Illinois, waiting to see “LastYear at Marienbad.” On those lonely sidewalks, in that endless night, how longdid we wait there? And was it the first time we waited in that line, to enterthe old theater with its columns, its aisles, its rows of seats--or did we seethe same film here last year? Yes, it's easy to smile at Alain Resnais' 1961 film, whichinspired so much satire and yet made such a lasting impression. Incredible tothink that students actually did stand in the rain to be baffled by it, andthen to argue for hours about its meaning--even though the director claimed ithad none. I hadn't seen “Marienbad” in years, and when I saw the new digitizedvideo disc edition in a video store, I reached out automatically: I wanted tosee it again, to see if it was silly or profound, and perhaps even to recapturean earlier self--a 19-year-old who hoped Truth could be found in Art. Advertisement Viewing the film again, I expected to have a cerebralexperience, to see a film more fun to talk about than to watch. What I was notprepared for was the voluptuous quality of “Marienbad,” its command of tone andmood, its hypnotic way of drawing us into its puzzle, its austere visualbeauty. Yes, it involves a story that remains a mystery, even to the charactersthemselves. But one would not want to know the answer to this mystery.Storybooks with happy endings are for children. Adults know that stories keepon unfolding, repeating, turning back on themselves, on and on until that endthat no story can evade. The film takes place in an elegant chateau, one with ornateceilings, vast drawing rooms, enormous mirrors and paintings, endless corridorsand grounds in which shrubbery has been tortured into geometric shapes andpatterns. In this chateau are many guests--elegant, expensively dressed,impassive. We are concerned with three of them: “A” (Delphine Seyrig), abeautiful woman. “X” (Giorgio Albertazzi), with movie-idol good looks, whoinsists they met last year and arranged to meet again this year. And “M”(Sascha Pitoeff), who may be A's husband or lover, but certainly exercisesauthority over her. He has a striking appearance, with his sunken triangularface, high cheekbones, deep-set eyes and subtle vampirish overbite. The film is narrated by X. The others have a few lines ofdialogue here and there. On the soundtrack is disturbing music by FrancisSeyrig, mostly performed on an organ--Gothic, liturgical, like a requiem. Xtells A they met last year. He reminds her of the moments they shared. Theirconversations. Their plans to meet in her bedroom while M was at the gamingtables. Her plea that he delay his demands for one year. Her promise to meethim again next summer. A does not remember. She entreats X, unconvincingly, to leaveher alone. He presses on with his memories. He speaks mostly in the secondperson: “You told me ... you said ... you begged me ... .” It is a narrative heis constructing for her, a story he is telling her about herself. It may betrue. We cannot tell. Resnais said that as the co-writer of the story he didnot believe it, but as the director, he did. The narrative presses on. Theinsistent, persuasive X recalls a shooting, a death. No--he corrects himself.It did not happen that way. It must have happened this way, instead ... . Advertisement We see her in white, in black. Dead, alive. The film,photographed in black and white bySacha Vierny, is in widescreen. The extremewidth allows Resnais to create compositions in which X, A and M seem to occupydifferent planes, even different states of being. (The DVD is letterboxed; tosee this film panned-and-scanned would be pointless.) The camera travelssinuously; the characters usually move in a slow and formal way, so that anysudden movement is a shock (when A stumbles on a gravel walk and X steadiesher, it is like a sudden breath of reality). The men play a game. It has been proposed by M. It involvessetting out several rows of matchsticks (or cards, or anything). Two playerstake turns removing matchsticks, as many as they want, but only from one row ata time. The player who is left with the last matchstick loses. M always wins.On the soundtrack, we hear theories: “The one who starts first wins ... the onewho goes second wins ... you must take only one stick at a time ... you mustknow when to ... .” The theories are not helpful, because M always wins anyway.The characters analyzing the stick game are like viewers analyzing the movie:You can say anything you want about it, and it makes no difference. “I'll explain it all for you,” promised Gunther Marx, aprofessor of German at the U. of I. We were sitting over coffee in the studentunion, late on that rainy night in Urbana. (He would die young; his sonFrederick would be one of the makers of “Hoop Dreams.”) “It is a working out ofthe anthropological archetypes of Claude Levi-Strauss. You have the lover, theloved one and the authority figure. The movie proposes that the lovers had anaffair, that they didn't, that they met before, that they didn't, that theauthority figure knew it, that he didn't, that he killed her, that he didn't.Any questions?” Advertisement I sipped my coffee and nodded thoughtfully. This was deep. Inever subsequently read a single word by Levi-Strauss, but you see I have notforgotten the name. I have no idea if Marx was right. The idea, I think, isthat life is like this movie: No matter how many theories you apply to it, lifepresses on indifferently toward its own inscrutable ends. The fun is in askingquestions. Answers are a form of defeat. It is possible, I realize, to grow impatient with “Last Year atMarienbad.” To find it affected and insufferable. It doesn't hurtle through itsstory like today's hits--it's not a narrative pinball machine. It is adeliberate, artificial artistic construction. I watched it with a pleasure sointense I was surprised. I knew to begin with there would be no solution. Thatthe three characters would move forever through their dance of desire anddenial, and that their clothing and the elegant architecture of the chateau wasas real as the bedroom at the end of “2001: A Space Odyssey”--in other words, simply a settingin which human behavior could be observed. There is one other way to regard the movie. Consider thenarration. X tells A this, and then he tells her that. M behaves as X says hedoes--discovering them together, not discovering them, firing a pistol, notfiring it. A remembers nothing, but acts as if she cares. She thinks she hasn'tmet X before, and yet in some scenes they appear to be lovers. Can it be that X is the artist--the author, the director? Thatwhen he speaks in the second person (“You asked me to come to your room ... “)he is speaking to his characters, creating their story? That first he has Mfire a pistol, but that when he doesn't like that and changes his mind, Mobediently reflects his desires? Isn't this how writers work? Creatingcharacters out of thin air and then ordering them around? Of course even if Xis the artist, he seems quite involved in the story. He desperately wants tobelieve he met A last year at Marienbad, and that she gave him hope--asked himto meet her again this year. That is why writers create characters: to be ableto order them around, and to be loved by them. Of course, sometimes charactershave wills of their own. And there is always the problem of M.