Billy Wilder's "Sunset Boulevard” is the portrait of aforgotten silent star, living in exile in her grotesque mansion, screening herold films, dreaming of a comeback. But it's also a love story, and the lovekeeps it from becoming simply a waxworks or a freak show. Gloria Swanson givesher greatest performance as the silent star Norma Desmond, with her graspingtalons, her theatrical mannerisms, her grandiose delusions.William Holdentactfully inhabits the tricky role of the writer half her age, who allowshimself to be kept by her. But the performance that holds the film together,that gives it emotional resonance and makes it real in spite of its gothicflamboyance, is by Erich von Stroheim, as Norma's faithful butler Max. Advertisement Themovie cuts close to the bone, drawing so directly from life that many of thesilent stars at the movie's premiere recognized personal details. In nocharacter, not even Norma, does it cut closer than with Max von Mayerling, aonce-great silent director, now reduced to working as the butler of the womanhe once directed--and was married to. There are unmistakable parallels with vonStroheim, who directed Swanson in "Queen Kelly” (1928), whose creditsincluded "Greed" and "The Merry Widow,” but who directed onlytwo sound films and was reduced to playing Nazi martinets and parodies ofhimself in other people's films. In"Sunset Boulevard,” Desmond screens one of her old silent classics for JoeGillis, the young writer played by Holden. Max runs the projector. The scene isfrom “Queen Kelly.” For a moment Swanson and von Stroheim are simply playingthemselves. Later, when Joe is moved into the big mansion, Max shows him to anornate bedroom and explains, "It was the room of the husband.” Max istalking about himself; he was the first of her three husbands, and loved her somuch he was willing to return as a servant, feeding her illusions, forging herfan mail, fiercely devoted to her greatness. Inone of the greatest of all film performances, Swanson's Norma Desmond skatesclose to the edge of parody; Swanson takes enormous chances with theatricalsneers and swoops and posturings, holding Norma at the edge of madness for mostof the picture, before letting her slip over. We might not take her seriously.That's where Max comes in. Because he believes, because he has devoted his lifeto her shrine, we believe. His love convinces us there must be something worthloving in Norma, and that in turn helps explain how Joe can accept her. Advertisement Normaof course is not a wrinkled crone. She is only 50 in the film, younger thanstars such asSusan SarandonandCatherine Deneuve. There is a scene duringNorma's beauty makeover when a magnifying glass is held in front of her eyes,and we are startled by how smooth Swanson's skin is. Swanson in real life was ahealth nut who fled from the sun, which no doubt protected her skin (she was 53when she made the film), but the point in "Sunset Boulevard” is that shehas aged not in the flesh but in the mind; she has become fixed at the momentof her greatness, and lives in the past. BillyWilder and his co-writer Charles Brackett knew the originals of the characters.What was unusual was how realistic Wilder dared to be. He used real names(Darryl Zanuck, Tyrone Power, Alan Ladd). He showed real people (Norma's bridgepartners, cruelly called "the waxworks” by Gillis, are the silent starsBuster Keaton, Anna Q. Nilsson and H.B. Warner). He drew from life (when Normavisits Cecil B. De Mille at Paramount, the director is making a real film,"Samson and Delilah,” and calls Norma "little fellow,” which is whathe always called Swanson). When Max the butler tells Joe, "There werethree young directors who showed promise in those days, D.W. Griffith, Cecil B.De Mille and Max von Mayerling,” if you substituted von Stroheim for vonMayerling, it would be a fair reflection of von Stroheim's stature in the1920s. "SunsetBoulevard” remains the best drama ever made about the movies because it seesthrough the illusions, even if Norma doesn't. When the silent star first greetsthe penniless writer inside her mansion, they have a classic exchange. “Youused to be big,” he says. Norma responds with the great line, "I am big.It's the pictures that got small.” Hardly anyone remembers Joe's next line:"I knew there was something wrong with them.” Theplot has supplied Joe with a lot of reasons to accept Norma's offer of aprivate screenwriting job. He's broke and behind on his rent, his car is aboutto be repossessed, and he doesn't want to go back to his job as a newspapermanin Dayton. He is also not entirely unwilling to prostitute himself; Holdenprojects subtle weakness and self-loathing into the role. He goes through theforms of saying he doesn't want Norma's gifts, but he takes them--the goldcigarette cases, the platinum watch, the suits, the shirts, the shoes. Heclaims to be surprised on New Year's Eve when she throws a party just for thetwo of them, but surely he has known from the first that she wants not only awriter, but a young man to reassure her that she is still attractive. Advertisement Thething about Norma is that life with her isn't all bad. She isn't boring. Herhistrionics and dramaturgy are entertaining, and she has a charming side, aswhen she stages a pantomime for Joe, playing a Max Sennett bathing girl andthen doing a passable version of Chaplin's Tramp. Joe is willing to be kept.The only thing the film lacks is more sympathy between Joe and Max, who have somuch in common. Thereis of course the young blond Paramount writer Betty (Nancy Olson), who Joemeets early in the picture. She's engaged to be married (to a young Jack Webb),but as Joe begins sneaking out of the mansion to collaborate on a screenplaywith Betty, she falls in love with him. He's attracted, but pulls back, partlybecause he doesn't want her to discover the truth, but also because he likesthe lifestyle with Norma. And ... maybe because, like Max, he has fallen underher spell? His dialogue is sharp-edged and can be cruel. (When she threatenssuicide, he tells her, "Oh, wake up, Norma. You'd be killing yourself toan empty house. The audience left 20 years ago.”) But there's a certain pity,too. "Poor devil,” he says, "still waving proudly to a parade whichhad long since passed her by.” Ihave seen "Sunset Boulevard” many times, and even analyzed it a shot at atime at the University of Virginia. But on this latest screening I was struckby its similarity with the 1964 Japanese drama "Woman in the Dunes."Both are about men who are trapped in the home, or lair, of a woman who simplywill not let them out again. They struggle, they thrash a little, they look forthe means of escape, but at some subterranean level they are content to beprisoners, and perhaps even enjoy it. Both women need a man to help them holdback the inexorable advance of the sands--in Norma's case, the sands of time. Ofall the great directors of Hollywood's golden age, has anybody made more filmsthat are as fresh and entertaining to this day as Billy Wilder's? The creditsare astonishing: “Double Indemnity,” “Ace in the Hole,” “Some Like It Hot,” “TheApartment,” “The Lost Weekend,” “Stalag 17,” “Witness for the Prosecution,” “Sabrina.”And who else can field two contenders among the greatest closing lines of alltime? From “Some Like It Hot” there is “Nobody's perfect.” And from “SunsetBoulevard,” Norma Desmond's: “There's nothing else. Just us, and the cameras,and those wonderful people out there in the dark. All right, Mr. De Mille, I'mready for my closeup.” Advertisement