One of the great things aboutCharles Dickensis the way hispeople colonize your memory. I wonder if there's any writer except Shakespearewho has created more characters whose names we remember, and whose types seemso true to human nature. A director adapting a Dickens novel finds that much ofhis work has been done for him. Certainlythat's the case with David Lean's "Great Expectations” (1946), which hasbeen called the greatest of all the Dickens films, and which does what fewmovies based on great books can do: Creates pictures on the screen that do notclash with the images already existing in our minds. Lean brings Dickens'classic set-pieces to life as if he'd been reading over our shoulder: Pip'sencounter with the convict Magwitch in the churchyard, Pip's first meeting withthe mad Miss Havisham, and the ghoulish atmosphere in the law offices of Mr.Jaggers, whose walls are decorated with the death masks of clients he has lostto the gallows. Advertisement Britishcritic Adrian Turner has observed that "Great Expectations” resembles ahorror film, and certainly there is horror and the macabre in the existence ofMiss Havisham, who was jilted on her wedding day and has spent the rest of herlife in bitter resentment--all of the clocks in her house stopped at the momentwhen she discovered that her fiance has betrayed her. Dickens (and Lean) have achilling success with the early scene in which Pip, an orphan being raised in ablacksmith's house, is summoned to the gothic mansion of a rich local woman andfinds old Miss Havisham, still in her wedding dress, occupying the room wherethe wedding feast was to be held. She points out the "bride cake,” nibbledby mice, festooned by cobwebs, and requires Pip to push her wheelchair aroundand around the long table where the wedding feast had been planned. Theatmosphere of the mansion and its deranged occupant no doubt inspired BillyWilder's "Sunset Boulevard," made four years later, with its agingmovie queen in gloomy exile inside her mansion in Beverly Hills. Turner, whohas written books on both Lean and Wilder, makes the comparison, and alsowonders if the early graveyard scene of Magwitch jumping at Pip from outsidethe screen didn't inspire countless imitations in horror films ever since. InMiss Havisham's mansion is the young Estella (Jean Simmons, astonishinglybeautiful at 17). The old woman has adopted the girl, and brought her up forone purpose only: to break men's hearts. Pip falls instantly in love with her,but Estella tries to warn him away, perhaps because she really likes him. Herpurpose is to cause men pain, so that Miss Havisham can somehow settle heraccount with an unfair world. Pip, who has been reared by his shrewish oldersister (Freda Jackson) and her husband, the good-hearted blacksmith Joe Gargery(Bernard Miles), is too rough-hewn for the elegant Estella, but a mysteriousbenefactor finances his transformation. Pip is summoned by Jaggers, Miss Havisham'slawyer, and told that his expenses will be paid while he undergoes educationand training in London--not least in how to dress and speak like a gentleman.He shares rooms with elegant young Herbert Pocket (Alec Guinness), who sets afine example. Ofcourse Pip assumes that Miss Havisham is his benefactor, and that he is beinggroomed to marry Estella (played byValerie Hobsonas a 20-year-old). Whetherhe is right or wrong is one of the questions Dickens solves in his story'smelodramatic conclusion. The Lean version makes minor repairs on the ending tosatisfy the sentimental requirements of audiences, which means that thosefamiliar with the novel will not necessarily know how the film ends. SinceDickens draws his characters in bold, colorful strokes, typecasting is probablythe best approach to filling the roles. Pip himself is a somewhat colorlesshero; like many of Dickens' central characters, he's not the source of theaction but a witness to the colorful events and people that thrust themselves intohis life. It's the supporting cast that makes the story vivid. Advertisement MaritaHunt dominates the early scenes, playing Miss Havisham as a beak-nosed, shabbyfigure, bedecked in crumbling lace and linen, not undernourished despite herlong exile; at times in profile she looks uncannily like a late bronze of QueenVictoria. Another fount of energy is the towering Francis L. Sullivan asJaggers; his voice rolls and booms from a vast frame, and he dwarfs his eagerlittle assistant Wemmick (Ivor Barnard). The scene in which Wemmick brings Piphome to meet his Aged Parent is typical of the appeal Dickens makes to ourimaginations; there is no reason such a peripheral character as the "AgedP” needs to be preserved in a film version--but we remember how the Aged was deafand loved to be nodded to, and a lot of amusing nodding goes on. Theonly misstep in the casting may have been the choice ofJohn Millsas the adultPip. Mills was 38 when the film was made, and Pip is supposed to be 20 going on21. It's a jolt when the film cuts from young Pip (Anthony Wager), who is about16, to the grown Pip, who is supposed to be only four years older but franklylooks middle-aged. (Guinness, who plays Pip's contemporary Herbert Pocket, was32; this was his first substantial screen role.) Themovie was made by Lean at the top of his early form; his "BriefEncounter" (1945), starringTrevor Howardand Celia Johnson in the storyof a sad and touching romance, remains one of the great British classics. His"Blithe Spirit" was made the same year, and he went directly from"Great Expectations" to another Dickens adaptation, "OliverTwist" (1948). He was an editor for seven years before directing his firstfilm, and his career stands as an argument for the theory that editors makebetter directors than cinematographers do; the cinematographer is seduced bythe look of a film, while the editor is faced with the task of making sense outof it as a story. DavidLean (1908-1991) was considered by many the greatest British filmmaker of histime, although a better case can be made forMichael Powell, for whom he workedas an editor ("49th Parallel," 1941). He achieved his great fame witha series of epics beginning with "The Bridge on the River Kwai"(1957) and continuing with a series of monuments: "Lawrence ofArabia" (1962), "Doctor Zhivago" (1965), "Ryan'sDaughter" (1970) and, after a long sojourn with a doomed production of"Mutiny on the Bounty," "A Passage to India" (1984). He wonOscars for directing "Kwai" and "Lawrence" and wasnominated for five other films (including "Great Expectations"). Thelater pictures of course made Lean's worldwide reputation. They show, as all ofhis films do, a fondness for dramatic visual compositions; he liked to arrangethe elements in a frame to draw the eye to the dramatic center of the shot.What the earlier films have is greater economy, and thus greater energy, intheir storytelling. The later Lean worked more like a former cinematographerthan a former editor. Advertisement Whenthe British Film Institute celebrated its 50th anniversary with a banquet atthe Cannes Film Festival, Lean, Prince Charles and Princess Diana were theguests of honor, while his rivals, such asLindsay AndersonandAlan Parker,sat in the cheap seats. But there were those who felt that his earlier, smallerfilms, like "Great Expectations,” were his best, and that the laterpictures were weakened by a crisp perfectionism. I visited the set of"Ryan's Daughter" on the Dingle Peninsula of Ireland in 1969, andremember a night whenRobert Mitchumheld court in a rain-swept cottage."Our director has filmed for one day,” he said, "and he is a weekbehind.”Footnote:Alfonso Cuaron's 1998version of "Great Expectations” updated the story to a Florida mansionchoked in vegetation, and starredEthan Hawkeas Pip,Gwyneth PaltrowasEstella andAnne Bancroftas Miss Havisham. It caught the same notes of horrorand pathos, but got unfavorable reviews, perhaps because it was so willing tofollow the story right over the top. I liked its nerve.