Movie lore has it that Bela Lugosi could barely speak Englishwhen he was chosen by Universal Pictures to star in "Dracula" (1931).Lon Chaney had been scheduled to play the role, a wise casting decision afterhis success in the silent classics "The Hunchback of Notre Dame” and"The Phantom of the Opera.” But he died as "Dracula” was going intoproduction, and the mysterious 49-year-old Hungarian, who starred in a 1927Broadway production of "Dracula,” was cast. Legend must exaggerate,because the Hungarian emigre Lugosi had been living and working in the UnitedStates for a decade by the time the film was made, and yet there is somethingabout his line readings that suggests a man who comes sideways toEnglish--perhaps because in his lonely Transylvanian castle, Dracula has hadcenturies to study it but few opportunities to practice it. Advertisement Certainlyit is Lugosi's performance, and the cinematography of Karl Freund, that makeTod Browning's film such an influential Hollywood picture. The greatest of allthe vampire films is F.M. Murnau's silent "Nosferatu” (1922, another titlein this Great Movies series), but Murnau's work was almost a dead end, completeand self-contained, a masterpiece that stood alone. (WhenWerner Herzogmadehis version of "Nosferatu” withKlaus Kinskiin 1979, he was so in awe ofthe original that he shot on some of the same locations.) The look of Browning's"Dracula” was inspired by Murnau's gloomy gothic visuals, well known tothe German cameraman Freund, who worked with Murnau on "The Last Laugh.”It was Freund who was instrumental in creating the startling impact of thearrival at Castle Dracula, the entrance to the castle's forbidding interiorspaces, and such “Nosferatu”-inspired shots as the hand snaking from a coffinand rats snuffling in a crypt. Whatwas new about the film was sound. It was the first talking picture based onBram Stoker's novel, and somehow Count Dracula was more fearsome when you couldhear him--not an inhuman monster, but a human one, whose painfully articulatedsentences mocked the conventions of drawing room society. And here Lugosi'saccent and his stiffness in English were advantages. Lugosiwas by all accounts a strange, deliberately theatrical man, who drew attentionto himself with stylized behavior. He made his foreignness an asset, and inHollywood and New York used his sinister, self-mocking accent to advantage. Afterthe success of "Dracula,” he often appeared in public dressed formally,with a flowing cape, as if still playing the role. In later life, addicted todrugs, he was reduced to self-parody, and a glimpse of his last years can befound in "Ed Wood” (1994), set during his last picture. Thevampire Dracula has been the subject of more than 30 films; something deepwithin the legend is suited to cinema. Perhaps it is the joining of eroticismwith terror. The vampire's attack is not specifically sexual, but in drinkingthe blood of his victims he is engaged in the most intimate of embraces, and nodoubt there is an instinctive connection between losing your virginity (andyour soul) and becoming one of the undead. Vampirism is like elegant,slow-motion rape, done politely by a creature who charms you into surrender. Advertisement TheDracula myth has been filmed so often, in so many different ways (most recentlybyFrancis Ford Coppolain his "Bram Stoker's Dracula,” 1992), that itsmaterial has become like an opera libretto, or a play by Shakespeare: We knowthe story and all the beats, and are concerned mostly with the style andproduction. All of the serious later movie Draculas draw from Lugosi'sperformance, not from the earlier work byMax Schreck, whose "Nosferatu”was more inhuman and distant, a skeletal wraith. Lugosi, with his deep eyes(made eerie by Freund with pinpoint lights) and his glossy black hair, createdone of the most influential of all movie performances, making a distinctiveimpression that influenced movie Draculas for years to come--especially HammerFilms starChristopher Lee, who played the character at least seven times. Ifthe film's look and star performance were influential, so was its dialogue.Many of movie's great lines have entered into folklore: Inever drink ... wine. Forone who has not lived even a single lifetime, you are a wise man, Van Helsing. Listento them. Children of the night. What music they make. Thestory is familiar to every moviegoer. Renfield (Dwight Frye), an English realestate agent, visits Transylvania to sell a London property to the count. Hereally wants to make that sale; he takes no warning from the fear of thevillagers when Dracula's name is mentioned. He survives a terrifying ride in acoach with no driver. And then he plunges into his doom. The establishing shotsof the fearsome interiors of Castle Dracula owe everything to the tradition ofGerman Expressionism. There is the sinister politeness with which Draculagreets his guest and offers him food and ... wine. Then the overpowering ofRenfield. The return to England on the ship with its deadly cargo of coffins(another sequence that owes much to "Nosferatu”). The ghost ship thatdrifts into port, everyone on board apparently dead except for Renfield, who isstark staring mad. InLondon the vampire feasts on the blood of strangers encountered in the night,in scenes owing something to the legend of Jack the Ripper. Then he introduceshimself into high society by insinuating himself into the box at the opera occupiedby Dr. Seward (Herbert Bunston). The doctor owns Carfax Abbey, which is nextdoor to the sanitarium where the unfortunate Renfield has been imprisoned(giggling and eating spiders for their blood). He meets Seward's daughter Mina(Helen Chandler), her fiance John Harker (David Manners) and her friend Lucy(Frances Dade). They are joined eventually by the vampire hunter Dr. VanHelsing (Edward Van Sloan), who explains vampirism in more detail than thedrama probably requires. Advertisement Thescenes in Carfax Abbey are an anticlimax after the Expressionist terrors of thescenes set in Transylvania and aboard the ship. They're based on the sameBroadway play in which Lugosi first played Dracula, and owe more to thetradition of drawing-room drama (and, it must be said, comedy) than to theunderlying appeal of vampirism. Yet even here Browning is able to addunsettling touches, as in the way he suggests Dracula's presence in the visitsof bats and in the drifting of fog. TodBrowning (1882-1962) is a director whose name is central to any study ofthe horror genre, and yet most of his best work is overshadowed by his collaborators.Lon Chaney, "the man of 1,000 faces,” seems to be the key creative forcebehind Browning's silent landmarks "The Unholy Three” and "West ofZanzibar.” Lugosi, Freund and the subject matter are the creative enginesbehind "Dracula.” One Browning picture that stands alone as his personalvision is "Freaks” (1932), set in a circus sideshow, and so shocking ithas been banned here and there ever since. "Dracula”had no musical score when it was first released, apart from some fugitivestrains of "Swan Lake.” That left an opportunity. I saw a restored versionof the film in September at the Telluride Film Festival, withPhilip Glassjoining the Kronos Quartet in performing his newly composed score. That is theversion now available on tapes and discs. Puristsargue that Browning's original decision was the best one--to enhance the horrorby eerie sound effects instead of underlining it with music. But "Dracula”has been pushed and pulled in so many different directions by so many differentartists that Glass is only following the tradition in adding his owncontribution. The Glass score is effective in the way it suggests not justmoody creepiness, but the urgency and need behind Dracula's vampirism. Itevokes a blood thirst that is 500 years old. Advertisement Isthe 1931 "Dracula” still a terrifying film, or has it become a periodpiece? The "most chilling, genuinely frightening film ever made,” vows thereference series Cinebooks. Perhaps that was true in 1931, but today I thinkthe movie is interesting mostly for technical reasons--for the stylizedperformances, the photography, the sets. There is a moment, though, when Lugosidraws close to the sleeping Lucy, and all of the elements of the material drawtogether. We consider the dreadful trade-off: immortality, but as a vampire.From our point of view, Dracula is committing an unspeakable crime. From his,offering an unspeakable gift.