Apart from its other achievements, Jean Renoir's "GrandIllusion” influenced two famous later movie sequences. The digging of theescape tunnel in "The Great Escape" and the singing of the"Marseilles” to enrage the Germans in "Casablanca" can first beobserved in Renoir's 1937 masterpiece. Even the details of the tunnel dig arethe same--the way the prisoners hide the excavated dirt in their pants andshake it out on the parade ground during exercise. Butif "Grand Illusion” had been merely a source of later inspiration, itwouldn't be on so many lists of great films. It's not a movie about a prisonescape, nor is it jingoistic in its politics; it's a meditation on the collapseof the old order of European civilization. Perhaps that was always asentimental upper-class illusion, the notion that gentlemen on both sides ofthe lines subscribed to the same code of behavior. Whatever it was, it died inthe trenches of World War I. Advertisement "Neitheryou nor I can stop the march of time,” the captured French aristocrat Capt. deBoieldieu tells the German prison camp commandant, Von Rauffenstein. A littlelater, distracting the guards during an escape of others from the high-securityGerman fortress, the Frenchman forces the German to shoot him, reluctantly, andthey have a final deathbed exchange. `" didn't know a bullet in thestomach hurt so much,” he tells the German. "I aimed at your legs,” saysthe German, near tears. And a little later he says: "For a commoner, dyingin a war is a tragedy. But for you and I--it's a good way out.” Whatthe Frenchman knows and the German won't admit is that the new world belongs tocommoners. It changed hands when the gentlemen of Europe declared war. And the"grand illusion” of Renoir's title is the notion that the upper classessomehow stand above war. The German cannot believe that his prisoners, whom hetreats almost as guests, would try to escape. After all, they have given theirword not to. Thecommandant is played by Erich von Stroheim, in one of the most famous of movieperformances. Even many who have not seen the movie can identify stills of thewounded ace pilot von Rauffenstein, his body held rigid by a neck and backbrace, his eye squinting through a monocle. De Boieldieu (Pierre Fresnay), froman old aristocratic family, is a pilot von Rauffenstein personally shot downearlier in the war. The other two major characters are also French prisoners:Marechal (Jean Gabin), a workingman, a member of the emerging proletariat, andRosenthal (Marcel Dalio), a Jewish banker who has ironically purchased thechateau that de Boieldieu's family can no longer afford. The movie, filmed asthe clouds of World War II were gathering, uses these characters to illustratehow the themes of the first war would tragically worsen in the second. Sopointed was Renoir's message that when the Germans occupied France, “GrandIllusion” was one of the first things they seized. It was "CinematicPublic Enemy No. 1,” propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels announced, orderingthe original negative seized. Its history since then would make a movie like"The Red Violin," as the print moved across borders in shadowy ways.For many years it was assumed that the negative was destroyed in a 1942 Alliedair raid. But as Stuart Klawens reported in the Nation, it had already beensingled out by a German film archivist named Frank Hensel, then a Nazi officerin Paris, who had it shipped to Berlin. When Renoir supervised the assembly ofa “restored” print in the 1960s, nothing was known of this negative. He workedfrom the best available surviving theatrical prints. The result, the versionthat has been seen all over the world until now, was a little scratched andmurky, and encumbered by clumsy subtitles. Advertisement Theoriginal negative, meanwhile, was captured by Russians as they occupied Berlinand shipped to an archive in Moscow. In the mid-1960s, Klawens wrote, a Russianfilm archive and one in Toulouse, France, exchanged some prints, including thepriceless "Grand Illusion.” But since many prints of the film existed andno one thought the original negative had survived, the negative waited for 30years before being identified as a treasure. What that means is that therestored print of "Grand Illusion” now being shown around the country isthe best seen since the movie's premiere. And new subtitles by Lenny Borger aremuch improved--"cleaner and more pointed,” says critic Stanley Kauffmann. Thisprint looks and feels like a brand-new film. Here is a crisp print thatunderlines Renoir's visual style, his mastery of a subtly moving camera thatallowed him to film extended passages without cutting. In the paintings of hisfather, Auguste Renoir, our eyes are led gently through the composition. In thefilms of the son, there is a quiet voluptuousness; the camera doesn't point orintrude, but glides. As"Grand Illusion” opens, we meet von Rauffenstein in the German officers'mess. Having shot down two French fliers, he issues orders: "If they areofficers, invite them for lunch.” Marechal and de Boieldieu are later sent to aPOW camp, where they meet Rosenthal, already a prisoner, and benefit from theboxes of food his family sends him; often they eat better than their captors.Here are the tunnel-digging sequences, and the famous talent show scene, wheretotal silence falls as they regard a man costumed as a woman, for it has beenso long since they've seen a real one. Thetunnel digging is interrupted when all the prisoners are transferred. A fewyears pass, and now the three principal characters have been sent toWintersborn, a fortress with high, unscalable walls. After a back wound endedhis flying days, von Rauffenstein has volunteered to be commandant here as away of remaining in service. He is strict but fair, still deceived by notionsof class loyalty. Inthese scenes von Stroheim makes an indelible impression, as a man deluded byromantic notions of chivalry and friendship. It is a touching performance, a collaborationbetween the great silent director and Renoir, then emerging as a master of sound.The performance is better even than it seems: Audiences assume Erich vonStroheim was a German, but mystery clouds his origins. Born in Vienna in 1885,by 1914 he was working with D.W. Griffith in Hollywood, but when did heimmigrate to America (and add the "von” to his name)? Renoir writes in hismemoirs: "Stroheim spoke hardly any German. He had to study his lines likea schoolboy learning a foreign language.” Advertisement Thebreak from the fortress prison produces the touching deathbed farewell betweenDe Boeldier and von Rauffenstein, which is the film's most touching scene, andthen we join the workingman Marechal and the banker Rosenthal as they try toescape by walking cross-country through German territory. They're given shelterby a farm widow who sees security in Marechal, and perhaps Renoir is whisperingthat the true class connection across enemy lines is between the workers, notthe rulers. JeanRenoir, born in 1894, is on any list of the half-dozen greatest filmmakers, andhis "The Rules of the Game" (1939) is even more highly consideredthan "Grand Illusion.” He fought in World War I, then quickly returned toParis and entered the movie business. In his best films observation andsympathy for the characters define every shot; there is hardly a cameradecision made for pure effect, without thinking first of where best to stand tosee the characters. Renoirmoved to America in 1940, and made several Hollywood films, notably "TheSoutherner," with a screenplay by Faulkner, before going independent inthe 1950s with "The River," based on Rumer Godden's Calcutta story.In a long retirement he was sought out by younger filmmakers and critics, who foundhim as sunny as a grandfather in one of his father's impressionist paintings.He died in 1979. He would have been much cheered to know that even then thepristine negative of "Grand Illusion” was waiting in Toulouse to bediscovered.