I have never attended a live ballet performance. I blush to admit it.But it's true. I have in my time attended functions where women dancedabout on a stage, but I did not confuse them with ballet. Nor wantedto. My ignorance of ballet is based on deep-seated cultural and classprejudices absorbed during my central Illinois childhood: The sameforces that sent me panting to the Princess Theater on Saturdayafternoons with a dime in my hand made me disinterested in ballet. Ballet had something to do with the activities of the Fauntleroys whosported about in Thelma Leah Ritter's Dance Studios, which werelocated upstairs over the Princess Theater. From time to time duringquiet scenes in the movies, we could hear them thumping aboutoverhead, and we felt nothing but pity. Pity, and contempt, andhatred, and...well, if you've read any of Booth Tarkington'sPenrod stories you'll know how we felt. Advertisement I make this confession at this time because I fully expected not tolike "Peter Rabbit and Tales of Beatrix Potter." It is a series ofanimal tales from the works of Beatrix Potter, a strange Englishwomanwho was a little crackers, according to the latest biography, butwrote charming children's stories. The stories are told in dance andpantomime by the Royal Ballet, and the sound track is all music. Ithought perhaps four minutes of this ought to be enough for me. Curiously enough, I stayed and even enjoyed the film. I still wouldhave testified it was too highbrow for kids, though, because as a kidit would have been too highbrow for me. I was programmed againstballet and that was that. Fortunately, I took along three kids whohadn't been told they didn't like ballet and therefore didn't knowthat they were supposed to have a bad time. They had a good time. Theywere 7, 6 and 4 years old, and among the three of them there were onlytwo expeditions to the john (both by the 4-year-old, and one of them aspurious excuse to look for the candy counter). The stories are told simply and directly and with a certain almostclumsy charm. Instead of going for perfection in the dancing, theRoyal Ballet dancers have gone for characterizations instead. Thevarious animals have their quirks and eccentricities, and they arefairly authentic: The frog dances like a frog, for example, and notlike Nureyev. There are a couple of bad moments for the literal minded, I suppose.Take the scene where Jemima Puddle-Duck is trying to lay an egg. Mr.Fox has in mind the possibilities of preparing Jemima with a sage andonion stuffing, and after Jemima delivers herself of the egg, there isa touchy moment when it just misses becoming an omelet. This kind ofconfusion between animal-as-character and animal-as-food is a littledisquieting; if Jemima Puddle-Duck had eaten the omelet, would she beguilty of incestuous cannibalism? (Movies are getting so pervertedthese days!) In any event, I think I can fairly report that your children willenjoy "Peter Rabbit," and that you will too, especially if you live inthe affluent middle-class white communities near the Hillside, LincolnVillage and Highland Park theaters. If you happen to live anywhereelse in the city or suburbs, the movie is unfortunately not bookedanywhere near you. Hardly any family movies ever play the South orWest Sides; action and violence are shown in those neighborhoods. Nowthe entire inner city, including the Near North Side, Rogers Park,Hyde Park, South Shore and so on, are considered off limits forhigh-quality family fare, I guess. It could be that the kids of theurban core (black and white) could use a little whimsical fantasy oncein a while, wouldn't you think? I mean, a kid's a kid, right? Advertisement