Erich von Stroheim's "Greed" (1925), like the Venus deMilo, is acclaimed as a classic despite missing several parts deemed essentialby its creator. Its unhappy history is well known. Von Stroheim's original filmwas more than nine hours long. After it was cut, cut and cut again, it wasreleased at about 140 minutes, in a version that he disowned--and that inspireda fistfight with Louis B. Mayer. It is this version that is often voted one ofthe greatest films of all time. Theinspiration for "Greed" wasMcTeague,a novel by Frank Norris about therough, simple son of a drunken miner, who learns dentistry from a quack, movesto San Francisco, marries a woman who is a miser and ends up in Death Valleynext to the body of his rival for the woman and her lottery winnings. It was ableak and sardonic story for the Roaring '20s, and neither Mayer nor his newMGM partner, Irving Thalberg, thought the public wanted it--not at nine-plushours, certainly. Advertisement Forvon Stroheim, a martinet who affected the dress, bearing and monocle of aPrussian officer, their opposition was like a curse that followed him. AtUniversal, where Thalberg was then employed, von Stroheim's "FoolishWives" (1922) was cut by a third, and Thalberg fired him from his nextfilm, "Merry-Go-Round." He fled to MGM to make "Greed,"which cost $750,000 and took a year to shoot, only to have Thalberg catch upwith him there and demand more cuts. Noone now alive has seen the original version, but a San Francisco drama criticnamed Idwal Jones was present at its first studio screening, which began at 10a.m. and continued without breaks for lunch or anything else, von Stroheimsitting ramrod straight through the whole thing as an example to the others.Jones was a friend of the director's, but his account of that experience doesnot inspire our envy. He liked the individual parts well enough; it was justthat there were so many of them: "Every episode is developed to the full,every comma of the book put in, as it were." He noted that von Stroheim"worships realism like an abstract ideal; worships it more, and suffersmore in its achievement, than other men do for wealth or fame." Indeedthe film is realistic. Opening scenes were shot in the very gold mine thatNorris wrote about; it was reopened for the movie. The San Francisco dentist'soffice was not a set but a real second-floor office, which still exists. VonStroheim could have shot his desert scenes outside Palm Springs, but insistedon shooting in the 120-degree heat of Death Valley itself; the camera had to becooled with iced towels. Some of his crew mutinied and others complained. VonStroheim slept with his pistol, and as his two actors engaged in their deathstruggle he screamed: "Fight! Fight! Try to hate each other as you hateme!" Thesememories and others are recalled in a book about von Stroheim by Thomas QuinnCurtis, a longtime friend of the director's, who until fairly recent years wasthe Paris Herald-Tribune's film critic. He recalls lunching one day in Pariswith Louis B. Mayer, who told him the story of his fight with von Stroheim.That evening, Curtis had dinner with the director, who said, "That'sentirely accurate." Their fight began when von Stroheim took up his glovesto stalk out of the mogul's office. "I suppose you consider merabble," Mayer said. "Not even that," said von Stroheim. Mayerstruck him so hard that von Stroheim fell out through the office door and ontothe floor, still clutching gloves and cane. "You see, my hands wereoccupied," he told Mayer's secretary. Advertisement Whywere their tempers so inflamed? Partly because in Mayer's view a fortune hadbeen squandered on an unreleasable picture. But also because the film's view ofhuman nature was so sour and cynical. McTeague (Gibson Gowland) is a quack whofirst falls in love with Trina (Zasu Pitts) after chloroforming her in hischair, then leaning over her to inhale the perfume of her hair. Trina is amiser who begrudges her man a five-cent bus fare on a rainy day, and polishesher coins until they glisten. Trina's original suitor Marcus (Jean Hersholt, ofthe humanitarian award) essentially gives her to McTeague, then wants her backafter she wins a lottery. And there is a good possibility that McTeague andTrina engage in premarital sex, which was scandalous in 1925. (Much depends ona title card that says, "Please! Oh, please!" Does she mean pleasedo, or please don't?) Themissing seven hours of "Greed" have been called the Holy Grail of thecinema. Apparently they were destroyed to extract the silver nitrate used intheir manufacture. The movie that remained had a decent run in the 1920s, andwas later restored by silent film historian Kevin Brownlow; it is that versionthat is considered a masterpiece. Now an ambitious new approach has been madeto the material by the film restorer Rick Schmidlin, who discovered a trove oforiginal production stills and a copy of von Stroheim's long-lost 330-pageoriginal shooting script. He has taken that material and edited it togetherwith the surviving footage to produce a four-hour version that premiered on theTCM channel and will be available on video. Comparingthe two versions, we can see how not only length but also prudish sensibilitieswent into MGM's chop job. Early in their relationship, McTeague and Trina takethe interurban train out into the countryside. As they're standing at thestation, Trina's title card in the shortened MGM version reads, "This isthe first day it hasn't rained in weeks. I thought it would be nice to go for awalk." In Schmidlin's reconstruction from the shooting script, it reads:"Let's go over and sit on the sewer," and so they do, perching on amanhole cover. Advertisement Theoriginal version of "Greed" is perhaps a masterpiece more lamentedthan missed; there is a point after which an audience will simply not sitstill. Even von Stroheim's friend Jones wondered if it could be shown "onthe installment plan," and muses about how "German professors sit foryears before they developsitzfleish,"loosely translated as iron rumps.My own feeling, having seen both versions, is that movie lovers will want tobegin with the familiar 140-minute film (which after all is a great experience)and then, if their curiosity is aroused, look at Schmidlin's version to get anidea of all they have missed. Thesurviving "Greed" is an uncompromising exercise in naturalism,capturing the rough working-class lives of the new U.S. cities, where saloonsdoubled as living rooms. And there is a real poignancy in the plight ofMcTeague, who may by the end be a double murderer but is essentially a gentle,simpleminded soul. One of the scenes cut out by MGM is reconstructed bySchmidlin; it shows McTeague buying theater tickets for his engagement party.He wants the tickets on the right side of the theater. "As you face thestage, or the audience?" asks the ticket seller. "The side away fromthe drums," says McTeague, confused, and after he becomes convinced theman is toying with him, he explodes. Hereis a man who only wants to be a dentist and inhale Trina's lovely fragrance,and his bones end up in Death Valley. His last act is to set free his petcanary, which flutters a little, and dies. No wonder Mayer and Thalberg thoughtthe Jazz Age wasn't ready for this film.