Before Disney's 1991 film and long before the Beast startedsigning autographs in Orlando, Jean Cocteau filmed "Beauty and the Beast"in 1946, in France. It is one of the most magical of all films. Before the daysof computer effects and modern creature makeup, here is a fantasy alive withtrick shots and astonishing effects, giving us a Beast who is lonely like a manand misunderstood like an animal. Cocteau, a poet and surrealist, was notmaking a "children's film" but was adapting a classic French talethat he felt had a special message after the suffering of World War II: Anyonewho has an unhappy childhood may grow up to be a Beast. Advertisement Thosefamiliar with the 1991 cartoon will recognize some of the elements of thestory, but certainly not the tone. Cocteau uses haunting images and boldFreudian symbols to suggest that emotions are at a boil in the subconscious ofhis characters. Consider the extraordinary shot where Belle waits at the diningtable in the castle for the Beast's first entrance. He appears behind her andapproaches silently. She senses his presence, and begins to react in a way thatsome viewers have described as fright, although it is clearly orgasmic. Beforeshe has even seen him, she is aroused to her very depths, and a few secondslater, as she tells him she cannot marry--a Beast!--she toys with a knife thatis more than a knife. TheBeast's dwelling is one of the strangest ever put on film--Xanadu crossed withDali. Its entrance hall is lined with candelabra held by living human arms thatextend from the walls. The statues are alive, and their eyes follow theprogress of the characters (are they captives of the Beast, imprisoned byspells?). The gates and doors open themselves. As Belle first enters theBeast's domain, she seems to run dreamily a few feet above the floor. Later,her feet do not move at all, but she glides, as if drawn by a magnetic force.(This effect has been borrowed bySpike Lee.) She is disturbed to see smokerising from the Beast's fingertips--a sign that he has killed. When he carriesher into her bed chamber, she has common clothes on one side of the door and aqueen's costume on the other. Bellehas come to the castle as a hostage. She lives at home with her father, twounkind sisters and a silly brother, whose handsome friend wants to marry her.But she cannot marry, for she must care for Poppa. His business is threatened,and he learns on a trip to a seaport that he has lost everything. On his wayhome, through a forest on a stormy night, he happens upon the Beast's castle,and is taken prisoner and told he must die. The Beast offers a deal: He can gohome if he will return in three days, or he can send one of his daughters. Theother sisters of course sniff and make excuses, and their father says he is oldand nearly dead and will return himself. But Belle slips out and rides theBeast's white horse, which knows the way to the castle. And the Beast's firstwords tell her, "You are in no danger." Advertisement Indeedshe is not. The Beast has perhaps intuited that a daughter who would take herfather's place has a good heart. He tells her that every night at 7 he will askher the same question: "Will you be my wife?" She shudders and saysshe will never marry him, but eventually her heart softens, and she pities himand sees that he is good. He gives her a magical glove that allows her totravel instantly between the castle and her home (emerging whole from the wall),and there is intrigue involving the key to the garden where his fortune isheld. The sisters plot and scheme, but Belle of course prevails. Her fatherrises up from his deathbed, the Beast sinks into a final illness instead, andwhen she begs him to rally, his dying words are pathetic: "If I were aman, perhaps I could. But the poor beasts who want to prove their love can onlygrovel on the ground, and die." Thenthere is another death, of the faithless family friend who wanted to marry her,and as his body turns into that of the Beast, the Beast comes back to life andturns into a prince who looks uncannily like--the dead friend. And no wonder,because all three--friend, Beast and prince--are played byJean Marais. Odd,how appealing Marais is as the Beast, and how shallow and superficial he seemsas the pompadoured prince. Even Belle doesn't leap cheerfully into his arms,but looks quizzically at her new catch and confesses she misses the Beast. SodidMarlene Dietrich, who held Cocteau's hand during the suspenseful firstscreening of the film at a Paris studio. As the prince shimmered into sight andsmilingly presented himself as Belle's new lover, she called to the screen,"Where is my beautiful Beast?" Althoughhe made many films, Cocteau (1889-1963) did not consider himself primarily afilmmaker but a poet; he also painted, sculpted, wrote novels and plays, andstirred the currents of the Paris art scene. His first film, the surrealistic"Blood of a Poet," was made in 1930, the same year as Salvador Daliand Luis Bunuel's notorious "L'Age d'Or." Both films were produced bythe Viscount de Noailles, who delayed the release of Cocteau's after the otherfilm inspired riots (Bunuel wrote of filling his pockets with rocks to throw atthe audience if they charged the screen). Cocteau's film included images thatbecame famous, as when a mirror turns into a pool of water, and when a mouthwiped off a painting affixes itself to his hand. Advertisement "Bloodof a Poet" was an art film made by a poet. "Beauty and theBeast" was a poetic film made by an artist. He made it at the urging ofMarais, his lover of many years, who was tall and imposing, with anextraordinary profile and matinee idol looks--a contrast to the skinny,chain-smoking Cocteau, whose months of shooting the film were made a miserybecause of a painful skin disease that required penicillin every three hours. BecauseCocteau was not sure he had the technical mastery for such an ambitiousproduction, he recruited the directorRene Clement("Purple Noon") ashis technical adviser; the gifted cameraman Henri Alekan to handle the trickychanges between outdoor realism and indoor fantasy, and the theatrical designerChristian Berard to design the makeup, sets and costumes (his ideas were basedon the illustrations of Gustav Dore). The costumes were so elaborate they weresaid to be "as much as the actors could stand up in." All ofCocteau's thoughts on this process are preserved in his journal,Beauty and the Beast: Diary of aFilm,which shows himpersevering despite his health. His entry for Oct. 18, 1945: "Woke up withunbearable pain. As I can neither sleep nor walk up and down, I calm myself bypicking up this notebook and trying to shout my pain to the unknown friends whowill read these lines." Weexist. His film has made us the friends. Watching it again tonight, I felt anunusual excitement. Its devices penetrate the usual conventions of narrative,and appeal at a deeper psychic level. Cocteau wanted to make a poem, wanted toappeal through images rather than words, and although the story takes the formof the familiar fable, its surface seems to be masking deeper and moredisturbing currents. It is not a "children's film." Is it evensuitable for children? Some will be put off by the black and white photographyand the subtitles (brief, however, and easy to read). Those who get beyondthose hurdles will find a film that may involve them much more deeply than theDisney cartoon, because it is not just a jolly comic musical but deals, as allfairy tales do, with what we truly dread and desire. Brighter and more curiouschildren will be able to enjoy it very much, I suspect, although if they returnas adults they may be amazed by how much more is there.