Lillian Gishtold D.W. Griffith she was too old to play the girlin "Broken Blossoms," and perhaps she was. Born in 1896, she was 23as Griffith prepared the production in 1919, and not as waiflike as audiencesremembered her from "The Birth of a Nation," filmed five yearsearlier. But Griffith wanted a star, and Gish was that: Incredibly, in an agewhen silent actors never stopped working, this was her 64th film. It is not as important as "Birth of a Nation," butneither is it as flawed; stung by criticisms that the second half of hismasterpiece was racist in its glorification of the Ku Klux Klan and its brutalimages of blacks, Griffith tried to make amends in "Intolerance"(1916), which criticized prejudice. And in "Broken Blossoms" he toldperhaps the first interracial love story in the movies--even though, to besure, it's an idealized love with no touching. Advertisement Gishplays Lucy, the daughter of a brutal London prizefighter named Battling Burrows(Donald Crisp); the titles tell us she was "thrust into his hands by oneof his girls." A drunken "gorilla," he lives in a hovel inLimehouse, and when his manager berates him for drinking and carousing, hetakes it out on Lucy. Their story is intercut with the story of Cheng Haun(Richard Barthelmess), called "The Yellow Man" in the titles, aBuddhist who journeys from China to bring "a message of peace to thebarbarous Anglo-Saxons." Instead, he turns to opium, and "Limehouseknows him only as the Chink storekeeper." Griffithshot the movie almost entirely on sets, creating a foggy riverside atmosphereto suggest hidden lives. Cheng's room is a refuge upstairs over his shop. Lucyand Battling live in a room without windows, where he sits at a table, wolfinghis meals and drinking, while she cowers in a corner. When he orders her tosmile, she uses her fingers to push up the corners of her mouth. He gives Lucymoney for groceries and goes out to drink more, and she timidly ventures out todo the shopping, clutching a precious hoard of tinfoil, which she hopes she cantrade for a flower to brighten her grim existence. On the streets, wearyhousewives warn her against matrimony, and women of the night againstprostitution; thus her only two possible escapes seem closed. Through thewindow of his shop, the Yellow Man sees her, and "the beauty which allLimehouse missed smote him to the heart." Thatevening, Lucy spills hot food on Battling's hand, and he whips her almost todeath before going out to drink. She stumbles into the Chinese man's store, andhe gives her refuge, with "the first gentleness she has ever known."She is able to smile at him without using her fingers. When Battling Burrowsfinds out where she is, there's a violent showdown, including a striking shotwhere Lucy, locked in a room with Battling splintering the door with an ax,turns in a helpless circle, screaming. Advertisement Gishwas one of the great vulnerable screamers of the silent era, although she alsohad a good line in pluck and independence. In a long career that ended with"The Whales of August" (1987), she played many strong women. Here sheis essentially the passive object of male fantasy--of Battling, who sees her asservant and victim, and Cheng, who idealizes her as his "WhiteBlossom." Griffith emphasizes both her angelic face and her weakness byoften lighting and photographing her from above, and many years later, on theset of Robert Altman's "A Wedding" (1978), I heard her rebuke aphotographer who was trying for a low-angle shot: "Get up from there! Getup! If God had wanted you to shoot me from that angle, he would have given youa camera in your belly button. Mr. Griffith always said, `Shoot from above foran angel; shoot from below for a devil.' " Ifthe attitudes about race in "Broken Blossoms" are more well-meaningand positive than in "Birth of a Nation," they are neverthelesspainfully dated for today's eyes. But of course they are. Marriage between theraces was a crime in 1919, and so we see Cheng's face in closeup, loomingcloser to Lucy as if he wishes to kiss her, and then pulling away as thesubtitles assure us of his pure intentions. Battling, of course, thinks theYellow Man has had his way, but the girl cries out, "T'ain't nothingwrong!" Griffith intrigues his audience with the possibility of exoticsex, and then cuts to moralizing titles. Thestereotyping of the Chinese character begins with the choice of a Caucasian toplay him. There were many Asian actors in silent films, but only one, SessueHayakawa, played leading roles, and the most famous of the early Asiancharacters, like Charlie Chan and Fu Manchu, were played by whites. Thecharacter of Cheng is an anthology of stereotypes: He is a peaceful Buddhist,opium addict, shopkeeper. But Griffith's film was nevertheless open-minded andeven liberal in the context of his time and audiences, and we sense the goodintentions behind patronizing titles like this one describing the advice Chenggets from a Buddhist priest before his journey: "word for word, such as afond parent of our own land might give." Advertisement Althoughthe best silent comedy remains timeless and many silent films remain undated,melodrama such as "Broken Blossoms" seems old-fashioned to manyviewers. Watching it involves an act of cooperation with the film--even activesympathy. You have to imagine how exotic such stories once seemed, how thefoggy streets of Limehouse and the broadly drawn characters once held audiencesenthralled. Intrying to imagine the film's original impact, it might help to look atFellini's "La Strada" (1954). Pauline Kael finds many of Fellini'sinspirations in "Broken Blossoms," including Zampano the strongman(Anthony Quinn), whose costume even resembles Battling Burrows'. Gelsomina(Giulietta Masina), his much-abused companion, is obviously drawn from Lucy,and Richard Basehart's Matto, who gives her shelter from the brute, fills thesame function as the Yellow Man. Griffithin 1919 was the unchallenged king of serious American movies (only C.B. DeMillerivaled him in fame), and "Broken Blossoms" was seen as brave andcontroversial. What remains today is the artistry of the production, theethereal quality of Lillian Gish, the broad appeal of the melodrama, and theatmosphere of the elaborate sets (the film's budget was actually larger thanthat of "Birth of a Nation"). Andits social impact. Films like this, naive as they seem today, helped nudge axenophobic nation toward racial tolerance. Thereis all of that, and then there is Lillian Gish's face. Was she the greatestactress of silent films? Perhaps; her face is the first I think of among thesilent actresses, just as Chaplin and Keaton stand side by side among the men.When she was filming "The Whales of August" in 1987, her co-star wasanother legend,Bette Davis. The film's director,Lindsay Anderson, told methis story. One day after finishing a shot, he said, "Miss Gish, you havejust given me the most marvelous closeup!" "She should," BetteDavis observed dryly. "She invented them." Advertisement