The hero of Alfred Hitchcock's "Rear Window" istrapped in a wheelchair, and we're trapped, too--trapped inside his point ofview, inside his lack of freedom and his limited options. When he passes hislong days and nights by shamelessly maintaining a secret watch on hisneighbors, we share his obsession. It's wrong, we know, to spy on others, butafter all, aren't we always voyeurs when we go to the movies? Here's a filmabout a man who does on the screen what we do in the audience--look through alens at the private lives of strangers. Advertisement The man is a famous photographer named L.B.Jeffries--"Jeff" to his fiancée. He's played byJames Stewartas aman of action who has been laid up with a broken leg and a heavy cast that runsall the way up to his hip. He never leaves his apartment and has only tworegular visitors. One is his visiting nurse Stella (Thelma Ritter), whopredicts trouble ("the New York State sentence for a Peeping Tom is sixmonths in the workhouse"). The other is his fiancée, Lisa Fremont (GraceKelly), an elegant model and dress designer, who despairs of ever getting himto commit himself. He would rather look at the lives of others than live insidehis own skin, and Stella lectures him, "What people ought to do is getoutside their own house and look in for a change." Jeff'sapartment window shares a courtyard with many other windows (all built on asingle set by Hitchcock), and as the days pass he becomes familiar with some ofthe other tenants. There is Miss Lonelyhearts, who throws dinner parties forimaginary gentleman callers; and Miss Torso, who throws drinks parties forseveral guys at a time; and a couple who lower their beloved little dog in abasket to the garden, and a composer who fears his career is going nowhere. Andthere is Thorvald (Raymond Burr), a man with a wife who spends all her days inbed and makes life miserable for him. One day the wife is no longer to be seen,and by piecing together several clues (a saw, a suitcase, a newly dug spot inThorvald's courtyard garden), Jeff begins to suspect that a murder has takenplace. Theway he determines this illustrates the method of the movie. Rarely has any filmso boldly presented its methods in plain view. Jeff sits in his wheelchair,holding a camera with a telephoto lens, and looks first here and then there,like a movie camera would. What he sees, we see. What conclusions he draws, wedraw--all without words, because the pictures add up to a montage of suspicion. Inthe earliest days of cinema, the Russian director Kuleshov performed a famousexperiment in which he juxtaposed identical shots of a man's face with othershots. When the man was matched with food, audiences said the man lookedhungry, and so on. The shots were neutral. The montage gave them meaning."Rear Window" (1954) is like a feature-length demonstration of thesame principle, in which the shots assembled in Jeff's mind add up to murder. Advertisement Isometimes fancy that various archetypal situations circled tirelessly inHitchcock's mind, like whales in a tank at the zoo. One of them was fascinationof voyeurism--of watching people who do not know they are being watched.Another, famously, was the notion of an innocent man wrongly accused. And manyof his films illustrate male impotence or indifference in the face of coolblond beauty. Much is said of Hitchcock's blonds (Kim Novak,Eva Marie Saint,Grace Kelly,Tippi Hedren), but observe that they are not erotic playmates somuch as puzzles or threats. Lisa, the Kelly character, has a hopeless love forJeff, who keeps her at arm's length with descriptions of his lifestyle; afashion model wouldn't hold up in the desert or jungle, he tells her. Butperhaps his real reason for keeping her away is fear of impotence, symbolizedby the leg cast, and we are reminded of the strikingly similar relationshipbetween Scotty, the Stewart character in "Vertigo," and the fashionillustrator played by Barbara Bel Geddes. She, too, loves him. He keeps hisdistance. She sympathizes with his vertigo, as Kelly nurses the broken leg.Both observe his voyeuristic obsessions. In "Vertigo," Scotty fallsin love with a woman he has spied upon but never spoken to. In "RearWindow," he is in love with the occupation of photography, and becomescompletely absorbed in reconstructing the images he has seen through his lens.He wants what he can spy at a distance, not what he can hold in his arms. Stewartis an interesting choice to play these characters. In the 1930s and 1940s heplayed in light comedy, romances, crime stories and Westerns, almost always asa character we liked. After the war, he revealed a dark side in the fantasyscenes of Capra's "It's a Wonderful Life," and Hitchcock exploitedthat side, distant and cold, in "Rope," "The Man Who Knew TooMuch," "Vertigo" and "Rear Window." To understand thecurious impact of these roles, considerTom Hanks, whose everyman appeal isoften compared to Jimmy Stewart's. What would it feel like to see him in abizarre and twisted light? Advertisement In"Rear Window," Jeff is not a moralist, a policeman or a do-gooder,but a man who likes to look. There are crucial moments in the film where he isclearly required to act, and he delays, not because he doesn't care whathappens, but because he forgets he can be an active player; he is absorbed in apassive role. Significantly, at the end, when he is in danger in his ownapartment, his weapon is his camera's flashgun; he hopes to blind or dazzle hisenemy, and as the man's eyesight gradually returns, it is through a blood-reddissolve that suggests passion expressed through the eyes. Kellyis cool and elegant here, and has some scenes where we feel her real hurt. Shelikes to wear beautiful dresses, make great entrances, spoil Jeff withchampagne and catered dinners. He doesn't notice or doesn't like her attention,because it presumes a relationship he wants to elude. There is one shot, partlya point-of-view closeup, in which she leans over him to kiss him, and thecamera succumbs to her sexuality even if Jeff doesn't; it's as if she's beggingthe audience to end its obsession with what Jeff is watching, and considerinstead what heshouldbe drinking in with his eyes--herbeauty. Theremote-control suspense scenes in "Rear Window" are Hitchcock at hismost diabolical, creating dangerous situations and then letting Lisa and Stellalinger in them through Jeff's carelessness or inaction. He stays in hiswheelchair. They venture out into danger--Kelly even entering the apartment ofthe suspected wife killer. He watches. We see danger approaching. We, and he,cannot move, cannot sound the alarm. Thislevel of danger and suspense is so far elevated above the cheap thrills of themodern slasher films that "Rear Window," intended as entertainment in1954, is now revealed as art. Hitchcock long ago explained the differencebetween surprise and suspense. A bomb under a table goes off, and that'ssurprise. We know the bomb is under the table but not when it will go off, andthat's suspense. Modern slasher films depend on danger that leaps unexpectedlyout of the shadows. Surprise. And surprise that quickly dissipates, giving us amomentary rush but not satisfaction. "Rear Window" lovingly investsin suspense all through the film, banking it in our memory, so that when thefinal payoff arrives, the whole film has been the thriller equivalent offoreplay. Advertisement