The old man is proud beyond all reason of his position as ahotel doorman, and even prouder of his uniform, with its gold braids and brassbuttons, its wide shoulders, military lapels and comic opera cuffs. Positionedin front of the busy revolving door, he greets the rich and famous and is theembodiment of the great hotel's traditions--until, in old age, he is crushed bybeing demoted to the humiliating position of washroom attendant. F.W.Murnau's "The Last Laugh" (1924) tells this story in one of the mostfamous of silent films, and one of the most truly silent, because it does noteven use printed intertitles. Silent directors were proud of their ability totell a story through pantomime and the language of the camera, but no onebefore Murnau had ever entirely done away with all written words on the screen(except for one sardonic comment we'll get to later). He tells his storythrough shots, angles, moves, facial expressions and easily read visual cues. Advertisement Thefilm would be famous just for its lack of titles, and for its lead performancebyEmil Jannings, which is so effective that both Jannings and Murnau wereoffered Hollywood contracts and moved to America at the dawn of sound. But"The Last Laugh" is remarkable also for its moving camera. It isoften described as the first film to make great use of a moving point of view.It isn't, really; the silent historian Kevin Brownlow cites "TheSecond-in-Command," made 10 years earlier. But it is certainly the filmthat made the most spectacular early use of movement, with shots that trackdown an elevator and out through a hotel lobby, or seemingly move through theplate-glass window of a hotel manager's office (influencing the famous shot in"Citizen Kane" that swoops down through the skylight of a nightclub). Murnau'stechnical mastery makes all of his films exciting to see. In the vampire movie"Nosferatu," in the fiendish visions of "Faust," in theimaginary city of "Sunrise," he created phantasmagoric visions thatseemed to define his characters: They were who they were because of whatsurrounded them. This is a key to German Expressionism, the influential silentstyle that told stories through bold and exaggerated visual elements--realityslipping over into nightmare and back again. Inthe case of "The Last Laugh," however, Murnau's story is more of atraditional narrative than usual. He follows the old doorman in almost everyshot, cutting away only to show what the doorman sees. And he exaggerates thescale of the hotel and the city to emphasize how important it seems to thedoorman; the opening shot, coming down in the elevator and tracking across thelobby (the camera was in a wheelchair), peers out through revolving doors intothe rain, showing elegant people and glittering surroundings; the doorman isfull of himself as he whistles for cabs and salutes arriving customers. Inthose early scenes Murnau shoots the doorman from a low angle, so that he seemsto tower over other characters. He is tall and wide, his face surrounded by abeard and whiskers that frame its cherubic pomp. But beneath the grand displayhis body is failing him, and we see him struggle with an enormous steamer trunkand then take a moment's rest in the lobby--just long enough for the prissyassistant manager to see him and write up a note. And the next day when hearrives for work, his world shakes and the camera swirls as he sees another manin uniform, doing his job. Advertisement Muchof the doorman's happiness in life depends on the respect paid to his uniform byhis neighbors around the courtyard of his apartment building. Murnau built thisenormous set (most of the film, including rainy exteriors, was shot on soundstages) and peopled it with nosy busybodies who don't miss a thing. Ashamed tobe seen without his uniform, the doorman actually steals it from a locker towear it home. Later, when his deception is revealed, there is a nightmarishmontage of laughing and derisive faces. Histragedy "could only be a German story," wrote the critic LotteEisner, whose 1964 book on Murnau reawakened interest in his work. "Itcould only happen in a country where the uniform (as it was at the time thefilm was made) was more than God." Perhaps the doorman's totalidentification with his job, his position, his uniform and his image helpsforeshadow the rise of the Nazi Party; once he puts on his uniform, the doormanis no longer an individual but a slavishly loyal instrument of a largerorganization. And when he takes the uniform off, he ceases to exist, even inhis own eyes. Murnauwas bold in his use of the camera, and lucky to work with Karl Freund, a greatcinematographer who also immigrated to Hollywood. Freund filmed many otherGerman silent films, notably Fritz Lang's futurist parable"Metropolis" (1926), and his first notable American film was"All Quiet on the Western Front" (1930). He was one of the linksbetween German expression and its American cousin, film noir (see his work withJohn HustonandHumphrey Bogartin "Key Largo"). Herehe liberated the camera from gravity. There is a shot where the camera seems tofloat through the air, and it literally does; Freund had himself and the cameramounted on a swing, andAbel Ganceborrowed the technique a few years later forhis "Napoleon." There are shots where superimposed images swimthrough the air, the famous shot that seems to move through the glass window,and a moment when the towering Hotel Atlantic seems to lean over to crush thestaggering doorman. Advertisement Imentioned the one place in the film where a title card is used. It is notnecessary, and the film would make perfect sense without it. But Murnau seemedcompelled to use it, almost as an apology for what follows. We see the patheticold man wrapped in the cloak of the night watchman who was his friend, and themovie seems over. Then comes the title card, which says, "Here the storyshould really end, for, in real life, the forlorn old man would have little tolook forward to but death. The author took pity on him and has provided a quiteimprobable epilogue." Improbable,and unsatisfying, because a happy ending is conjured out of thin air. Thedoorman accidentally inherits a fortune, returns to the hotel in glory andtreats all his friends to champagne and caviar, while his old enemies glowerand gnash their teeth. It is this ending that inspires the English languagetitle. The original German is "Die Letzte Mann," or "the lastman," which in addition to its obvious meaning may also evoke "theprevious man"--the doorman who was replaced. The dimwitted practice oftacking a contrived happy ending onto a sad story was not unique with Murnau(who had the grace to apologize in advance for it), and has only grown morepopular over the decades. Asfor Emil Jannings (1884-1950), he made "The Last Laugh" at the top ofhis form; considered one of the world's greatest stars, he specialized intowering figures such as Peter the Great, Henry VIII, Louis XVI, Danton andOthello. The doorman's fall from grace was all the greater because the audienceremembered the glory of his earlier roles. Jannings came to America at the sametime as Murnau, won the Academy Award for "The Last Command" (1928),was rendered unemployable by the rise of the talkies, returned to Germany andfound one of his most famous roles, as Marlene Dietrich's erotically mesmerizedadmirer in "The Blue Angel" (1930). Jannings embraced the rise of theNazis, made films that supported them, was appointed head of a major Germanproduction company, and fell into disgrace after the war. The coat no longerfit. Advertisement