One of the hazards of movie comedy is that it's almost impossible tobe sure that what reads funny will look funny. "The Gang That Couldn'tShoot Straight," an uncertain comedy based on Jimmy Breslin's funnynovel, supplies plenty of examples. We laughed when Breslin told usthat one of the big responsibilities of a Mafia man's wife is to starthis car in the morning - to be sure it wasn't wired with a bomb. But when the movie uses this notion, It doesn't quite work as well.The Mafia wife gets into the car, crosses herself, starts it - and nobomb. Inside the house, the Mafia don is crouched under the breakfasttable. When he hears the motor running, he stands up. But it simplyisn't as funny on the screen as it was before. Advertisement Maybe part of the trouble is James Goldstone's direction, which tendstoward the heavy-handed. Instead of putting the Mafia chief under thetable, for example, why couldn't he have used a simple close-up,showing the guy closing his eyes, tensing, and then relaxing? Thiswould have drawn the audience into a sympathetic bond with thecharacter; by using slapstick exaggeration, Goldstone loses us. We get lost more than once. The movie is loosely strung togetheraround a small feud between old Baccala (Lionel Stander) and the youngupstart Kid Sally (Jerry Orbach). There is a romantic subplot betweenKid Sally's sister (Leigh Taylor-Young) and an Italian bicycle racer(Robert De Niro). But the feud is so casually delineated in thescreenplay that we can hardly follow it, and romantic subplots (aseveryone should know by now) are fast becoming the death of moviecomedy. Still, the Breslin novel provides a rich source of raw material, andsome scenes almost work in spite of themselves. It's funny when aMafia midget is dispatched to run Kid Sally's pet lion through a carwash. The idea is funny, anyway. But Goldstone has the midget andanother guy pull the lion through. Wouldn't it have been funnier ifhe'd made full use of the location by simply hooking the lion's chainonto the endless belt and letting the lion get pulled through like acar? Goldstone misses on some other scenes, too. Kid Sally rents an armoryfor a big bicycle race he's sponsoring, but there are labor troublesand the racetrack isn't completed. The race starts anyway, and a racerflies right off the end of the uncompleted track and through the air.This could be funny (rememberPeter Sellersrunning through a windowand landing in the water in "The Pink Panther"?), but Goldstonehandles it so badly visually that we are left with the distinctimpression that we're watching a stunt man doing a stunt; nothing else. The performances are too broad, the characters are too many, the plotis too indifferent to the structure of the movie, and - surprisingly -the movie is too sweet. It has a kind of television sentimentalityabout these colorful folks. A Mafia comedy somehow needs to deal withthe violence of the Mafia, maybe a hard-boiled approach is necessary,and the blood should be met head-on the way "MASH" met it. I dunno.Somehow, I want a comedy about the Mafia to leave me with something