A knight returning from the Crusades finds a rude church stillopen in the midst of the Black Death, and goes to confession there. Speaking toa hooded figure half-seen through an iron grill, he pours out his heart:"My indifference has shut me out. I live in a world of ghosts, a prisonerof dreams. I want God to put out his hand, show his face, speak to me. I cryout to him in the dark but there is no one there.” The hooded figure turns, andis revealed as Death, who has been following the knight on his homewardjourney. Advertisement Images like that have no place in the modern cinema, which iscommitted to facile psychology and realistic behavior. In many ways, IngmarBergman's "The Seventh Seal" (1957) has more in common with thesilent film than with the modern films that followed it--including his own.Perhaps that is why it is out of fashion at the moment. Long considered one ofthe masterpieces of cinema, it is now a little embarrassing to some viewers,with its stark imagery and its uncompromising subject, which is no less than theabsence of God. Films are no longer concerned with the silence of God but withthe chattering of men. We are uneasy to find Bergman asking existentialquestions in an age of irony, and Bergman himself, starting with"Persona" (1967), found more subtle ways to ask the same questions.But the directness of "The Seventh Seal” is its strength: This is anuncompromising film, regarding good and evil with the same simplicity and faithas its hero. All of Bergman's mature films, except the comedies, are about hisdiscontent with the ways that God has chosen to reveal himself. But when hemade "The Seventh Seal” he was bold enough to approach his subject in aliteral manner; to actually show the knight playing chess with Death, an imageso perfect it has survived countless parodies. And he had the confidence to endhis film, not with a statement or a climax, but with an image. "The strictlord Death bids them dance,” says the young actor, directing the attention ofhis wife to the horizon, against which Death leads his latest victims in amacabre parade. Seeing "The Seventh Seal” again after many years, I wasreminded of the richness of detail about Europe in the early Middle Ages, whenplague swept the land and the Crusaders returned. The knight (Max von Sydow)shares the story with many other characters, not least his squire (GunnarBjornstrand), a realistic, down-to-earth man who has a lively dislike of women,and a sardonic relationship with his master. (He has a silent little snarl toshow his discontent.) As the two of them travel home to the knight's castle,the knight is challenged by Death ("I have been at your side for a longtime”). He offers Death a bargain: They will play chess for the knight's soul.The game continues during the entire film. Advertisement Continuing on their way, the knight and squire encounter atroupe of performers, including a couple named Joseph and Mary who have a youngchild. They visit a seemingly deserted farmstead, where the squirecatches a man named Raval trying to steal the bracelet of a plague victim. ThisRaval is the very theologian who, years earlier, convinced the knight to jointhe Crusades. The plague has inspired extreme behavior. A group of flagellantsfiles past, some carrying heavy crosses, others whipping themselves, doing penance.The knight and squire encounter a girl (Maud Hansson), held in a cage, who isgoing to be burned at the stake; her captors explain that she slept with thedevil, drawing down the plague. The knight questions the girl about the devil,who should know if God exists. "Look in my eyes,” the woman says."The priest could see him there, and the soldiers--they would not touchme.” She is almost proud. "I see nothing but terror,” the knight says.Later, as the woman is being prepared for burning, the squire says, "Lookinto her eyes. She sees nothing but emptiness.” "It can't be,” says theknight. We are left, almost until the end, with the possibility that althoughDeath exists as a supernatural figure, there is no larger structure in whichGod plays a part. Some filmmakers are born.Ingmar Bergmanwas made. Self-made.Born in Uppsala in 1918, he was the son of a Lutheran minister whose strictupbringing included the punishment (recalled in the films) of the small boybeing locked in a cupboard “with things that will eat your toes.” His firstpostwar films, not much seen today, are uneasy mixtures of Italian neorealismand Hollywood social drama, and even the titles ("It Rains on OurLove," "Night is My Future”) suggest their banality. He was not at easein the world of small realistic gestures and everyday behavior, and only whenhe drew back into more serious issues did he begin to find his genius, in filmslike "To Joy” (1949) and "Sawdust and Tinsel” (1953). "TheSeventh Seal” and “Wild Strawberries,” both released in 1957, mark his comingof age as an artist. Both are about men near the ends of their lives, on ajourney in search of meaning. Bergman's spiritual quest is at the center of the films he madein the middle of his career. "The Seventh Seal” opens that period, inwhich he asked, again and again, why God seemed absent from the world. In"Through a Glass Darkly” (1962), the mentally ill heroine has a vision ofGod as a spider. In the austere "Winter Light” (1962), Bjornstrand and vonSydow appear again, in the story of a country priest whose faith is threatenedby the imminence of nuclear catastrophe. In "Persona” (1966), televisedimages of war cause an actress to simply stop speaking. In the masterpiece"Cries and Whispers" (1973), a woman dying of cancer finds a faith thather sisters cannot understand or share. Advertisement The last three major films in Bergman's career look inside forthe answers to his haunting questions. They are all autobiographical, including"Fanny and Alexander" (1984), the last film he directed, and two more hewrote the screenplays for, "The Best Intentions” (1992) and the remarkable“Sunday's Children” (1994). That last film, based on a memory of a summervacation in the country with a young man and his father, a dying minister, wasdirected by Bergman's own son, Daniel--perhaps as a way of allowing Daniel todeal with the same kinds of questions Ingmar has had. Bergman's work has an arc. The dissatisfied young man considerssocial and political issues. In middle age, he asks enormous questions aboutGod and existence. In old age, he turns to his memories for what answers thereare. And in many of these films, there is the same kind of scene ofreconciliation. In “The Seventh Seal,” facing the end of his own life and thegeneral destruction of the plague, the knight spends some time with Joseph andMary and their child, and says, "I will remember this hour of peace. Thedusk, the bowl of wild strawberries, the bowl of milk, Joseph with his lute.”Saving this family from Death becomes his last gesture of affirmation. In"Cries and Whispers,” a journal left by the dead sister recalls a day whenshe was feeling a little better, and the sisters and a maid walked in thesunlight and sat in a swing on the lawn: "I feel a great gratitude to mylife,” she wrote, "which gives me so much.” And "Scenes from a Marriage” (1973) tells the story of acouple whose marriage disintegrates, but whose love and hope do not quitedisappear; after many years apart, they visit a country house where they wereonce happy. The woman awakens with a nightmare, the man holds and comforts her,and in the middle of the night in a dark house, surrounded by hurt and fear,this comforting between two people is held up as man's best weapon againstdespair.