"Orpheus" is a Greek myth about a musician whodescends into the underworld to reclaim his dead wife, and so enchants the godswith the music of his lyre that they permit her to return to the land of theliving--on the condition that he never look at her. Jean Cocteau set his 1949film of the story in modern-day Paris, and added twists that would havestartled the Greeks, especially a romantic triangle with Death as the thirdpartner. "Orpheus"shows Cocteau's taste for magic and enchantment; he uses simple but dramaticspecial effects and trick shots to show his characters passing into the worldof death by stepping through mirrors, and when he wants a character to spring backto life, he simply runs the film backward. He weaves his effects so lightlyinto the story that after a time they aren't tricks at all, but simply theconditions of his mythical world. Advertisement Hisstory begins in the Poet's Cafe in Paris, where a famous middle-aged poet namedOrpheus (Jean Marais) is scorned by younger poets who want to displace him. Abrawl breaks out, and a young rival named Cegeste (Edouard Dermit) is struckdown. A Rolls-Royce materializes, and its owner, a striking princess (MariaCasares), orders her chauffeur to put the young man in the back seat. Then sheorders Orpheus to come along "as a witness," although their routetakes them not to the hospital but into a cloudy shadowland that eventuallybecomes the underworld. "Doyou know who I am?" the Princess asks Cegeste. "I am yourdeath." And so she is, looking like a dominatrix in her slinky black gownand severe makeup. Her chauffeur, named Heurtebise (Francois Perier), is a sortof guardian spirit who watches as she schemes. Orpheus returns with Heurtebiseto the living world, orders the chauffeur to hide the Rolls in his garage, andbecomes obsessed with the cryptic messages that come from the car'sradio--messages that might be inspiration for his art. His wife, Eurydice(Marie Dea), is impatient with his obsession, and Heurtebise tries to comforther. But eventually (to leap ahead) Eurydice is dead, all the principals areback in the underworld, and there are complications: Orpheus is in love withboth his wife and the Princess, the Princess is in love with him, and thechauffeur is in love with Eurydice. Thisis of course against all of the rules, and indeed the Princess may have causedEurydice's death out of jealousy. Soon the principals find themselvestestifying before a fact-finding tribunal of old and severe men. This soundsperhaps like an angel and reincarnation movie from modern Hollywood, and Iforesee a remake with a rock star descending to hell, reclaiming his girlfriendand growing obsessed with MP3 files he downloads from Napster. But Cocteau'sversion has a mystery and beauty. He was not a prolific filmmaker (he was alsobusy writing poems, novels and plays, painting, sculpting and being addicted toopium). But when he made films, they proceeded not from commercial formulas butfrom the wellsprings of his unconscious, and as a fellow traveler of thesurrealists he was not shy about bizarre imagery. Advertisement "Orpheus"became famous for its use of two leather-clad motorcyclists as the errand boysof death; their costumes, especially the high boots and leather corsets, edgedinto fetishism, and the Princess, arrogantly asking death's tribunal if she maysmoke, is from the same image pool. Orpheus was played by the handsome JeanMarais (in real life, Cocteau's lover). Moviegoers in 1949 could find parallelsbetween his career and the poet he was playing; both were famous at an earlyage, both were associated with important work (Marais as the Beast in Cocteau's1946 masterpiece "Beauty and the Beast"), and both were keenly awareof a new generation snapping at their heels. Cocteauhimself would have been called a dilettante if he had not been so accomplishedat the many arts he moved between. The joke was that if he had stayed with onething--poems, painting, films, whatever--he would have been hailed as a master,but the public distrusted his versatility. He directed his first film,"Blood of a Poet," in 1930. It was produced by the Viscount deNoailles, who financed Salvador Dali and Luis Bunuel's "L'Age d'Or"in the same year; when their film was condemned by the Vatican, the viscountshelved it and timidly delayed the release of "Blood of a Poet" fortwo years. (It went on to become a famous surrealist work that played daily for15 years in one New York theater.) Cocteauclaimed to think little of his first film, although modesty did not prevent himfrom mentioning its 15-year run in his memoirs. He didn't direct another until"Beauty and the Beast" in 1946. Then there was the 1948 masterpiece"The Storm Within." "Orpheus" has been linked in a trilogywith "Blood of the Poet" and the minor "Testament ofOrpheus" (1959), but it stands alone. Seeing"Orpheus" today is like glimpsing a cinematic realm that has passedcompletely from the scene. Films are rarely made for purely artistic reasons,experiments are discouraged, and stars as big as Marais are not cast ineccentric remakes of Greek myths. The story in Cocteau's hands becomesunexpectedly complex; we see that it is not simply about love, death andjealousy, but also about how art can seduce the artist away from ordinary humanconcerns, so that after Orpheus astonishingly returns from the land of death,he is more concerned with the nonsensical radio transmissions than with hiswife who loves him. (A cynic might whisper in his ear that a trip to theunderworld is more inspiration than most poets ever receive.) Advertisement Marais,tall and with a great shock of hair, cuts a fine figure as the famous man.Francois Perier, as the chauffeur, plays the second most important character inthe play, although we realize that only belatedly. Marie Dea uses some nice,almost comic, timing after returning from the dead, in a series of scenes whereOrpheus almost but not quite looks at her. Thefilm is not perfect. A subplot involving Eurydice's involvement with Aglaonice(Juliette Greco) and her "League of Women" is left hanging. Theweakness in the cast is Maria Casares, as the Princess, death's embodiment. Shelacks the presence for the role. Despite all the tricks of costuming andmakeup, she is slight and inconsequential. Cocteau wanted either Greta Garbo orMarlene Dietrich, and to imagine either one as the Princess is to see the filmwith its final piece in place. (There is a moment that would have become famousif performed by either one; after the tribunal abruptly disappears, thePrincess turns to the chauffeur and observes, "If this were our formerworld, I'd say, `Let's have a drink.' ") Oneof the pleasures of the film is to see how audacious the tricks are in theirsimplicity. Rubber gloves leap onto hands in reverse photography. Glass jumpsback into its frame. Mirrors are sometimes mirrors and sometimes sets on theother sides of mirrors. As characters emerge from mirrors, Cocteau simply cutsto their hands being lifted from a still pool of water that still reflectstheir faces. Just once he uses a technique he also used in "Beauty and theBeast," where a character is pulled on a wheeled platform we cannot see,so that he appears to be gliding. Thecharacters themselves are never overplayed, never too dramatic, never reachingfor classical effects as if they knew they were in a Greek myth. The humor,when it comes, is dry. Certain lines, not too many, employ Cocteau's own poeticlanguage. The best is: "Mirrors are the doors through which death comesand goes. Look at yourself in a mirror all your life and you'll see death doits work."