Growing older was a smart career move forBette Davis, whosepersonality was adult, hard-edged and knowing. Never entirely comfortable as aningenue, she was glorious as a professional woman, a survivor, or a bitchypredator. Her veteran actress Margo Channing in "All About Eve"(1950) was her greatest role; it seems to show her defeated by the wiles of ayounger actress, but in fact marks a victory: the triumph of personality andwill over the superficial power of beauty. She never played a moreautobiographical role. Advertisement Davis'performance as a star growing older is always paired with another famous 1950performance -- Gloria Swanson's aging silent star in "SunsetBoulevard." Both were nominated for best actress, but neither won; theOscar went to Judy Holiday for "Born Yesterday," although Davis' fansclaimed she would have won if her vote hadn't been split, ironically, by AnneBaxter, who plays her rival and was also nominated for best actress. Whenyou compare the performances by Davis and Swanson, you see different approachesto similar material. Both play great stars, now aging. Davis plays MargoChanning realistically, while Swanson plays Norma Desmond as a gothic waxwork."Sunset Boulevard" seems like the better film today, maybe because itfits our age of irony, maybe becauseBilly Wilderwas a better director thanJoseph Mankiewicz. But Davis' performance is stronger than Swanson's, becauseit's less mad and more touching. Daviswasa character, an icon with a grandstyle, so even her excesses are realistic. Themovie, written by Mankiewicz, begins like "Sunset Boulevard" with anarration by a writer - -the theater critic Addison DeWitt (George Sanders),bemused, cynical, manipulative. He surveys the room at a theatrical awardsdinner, notes the trophy reserved for Eve Harrington (Baxter), and describesthe survivors of Eve's savage climb to the top: her director Bill Sampson (GaryMerrill), her writer Lloyd Richards (Hugh Marlowe), Lloyd's wife Karen (CelesteHolm), who was her greatest supporter. And the idol she cannibalized, Margo. Asthe fatuous old emcee praises Eve's greatness, the faces of these peoplereflect a different story. Themovie creates Margo Channing as a particular person, and Eve Harrington as atype. Eve is a breathless fan, eyes brimming with phony sincerity. She wormsher way into Margo's inner circle, becoming her secretary, then her understudy,then her rival. Faking humility and pathos is her greatest role, and at firstonly one person sees through it: crusty old Birdie (Thelma Ritter), Margo'swardrobe woman. "What a story!" she snaps. "Everything but thebloodhounds snappin' at her rear end." Advertisement Margobelieves Eve's story of hard luck and adoration; no actor has much trouble believingothers would want to devote their lives to them. Good, sweet Karen alsosympathizes with the girl, and arranges to strand Margo in the country oneweekend so that Eve can go on as her understudy. Karen is repaid when Eve triesto steal her playwright husband, after an earlier, unsuccessful attempt tosteal Margo's fiancé, Bill. He is played by Merrill (Davis' real-life husband),who turns her away with a merciless put-down: "What I go after, I want togo after. I don't want it to come after me." Eveis a universal type. Margo plays at having an ego but is in love with her work-- a professional, not an exhibitionist. She's the real thing. But the sardonictone of the film is set by Sanders, as DeWitt. He's the principal narrator, andwith his cigarette holder, his slicked-down hair and his flawless eveningdress, he sees everything with deep cynicism. He has his own agenda; while Evenaively tries to steal the men who belong to the women who helped her, Addisoncalmly schemes to keep Eve as his own possession. Sanders, who won the Oscarfor best supporting actor, lashes her in one of the movie's most savagespeeches: "Is it possible, even conceivable, that you've confused me withthat gang of backward children you play tricks on? That you have the same contemptfor me as you have for them?" And: "I am nobody's fool. Least of all,yours." Glitteringin the center of "All About Eve" is a brief supporting appearance byMarilyn Monroe. This film, and John Huston's "The Asphalt Jungle"earlier the same year, put her on the map; she was already "MarilynMonroe," in every detail. She appears at Margo's party as DeWitt's date,and he steers her toward the ugly but powerful producer Max Fabian (GregoryRatoff), advising her, "Now go and do yourself some good." Monroesighs, "Why do they always look like unhappy rabbits?" Ithas been observed that no matter how a scene was lighted, Monroe had thequality of drawing all the light to herself. In her brief scenes here,surrounded by actors much more experienced, she is all we can look at. Do wesee her through the prism of her legend? Perhaps not; those who saw the moviein 1950, when she was unknown, also singled her out. Mankiewicz helped createher screen persona when he wrote this exchange after the Monroe character seesMargo's fur coat. Advertisement "Nowthere's something a girl could make sacrifices for," Monroe says. "Andprobably has," says the director. "Sable,"Monroe explains. "Sable?"asks the producer. "Did she say sable or Gable?" Monroereplies: "Either one." IfMonroe steals her own scenes, the party sequence contains Davis' best work inthe movie, beginning with her famous line, "Fasten your seat belts. It'sgoing to be a bumpy night." Drinking too much, disillusioned by Eve'sbetrayal, depressed by her 40th birthday, she says admitting her age makes her"feel as if I've taken all my clothes off." She looks at Bill andbitterly says: "Bill's 32. He looks 32. He looked it five years ago. He'lllook it 20 years from now. I hate men." Itwas believed at the time that Davis' performance as Margo was inspired byTallulah Bankhead. "Tallulah, understandably enough, did little to dispelthe assumption," Mankiewicz tells Gary Carey in the bookMore About All About Eve."On the contrary, she exploitedit to the hilt with great skill and gusto." Press agents manufactured afeud between Davis and Bankhead, but Mankiewicz says neither he nor Davis wasthinking of Bankhead when the movie was made. Davis could have found all thenecessary inspiration from her own life. Davissmokes all through the movie. In an age when stars used cigarettes as props,she doesn't smoke as behavior, or to express her moods, but because she wantsto. The smoking is invaluable in setting her apart from others, separate fromtheir support and needs; she is often seen within a cloud of smoke, which seemslike her charisma made visible. Themovie's strength and weakness is Anne Baxter, whose Eve lacks the presence tobe a plausible rival to Margo, but is convincing as the scheming fan. When Eveunderstudies for Margo and gets great reviews, Mankiewicz wisely never shows usher performance; better to imagine it, and focus on the girl whose look is alittle too intense, whose eyes a little too focused, whose modesty is somehowsuspect. Advertisement Mankiewicz(1909-1993) came from a family of writers; his brother Herman wrote"Citizen Kane." He won back-to-back Oscars for writing and directing"A Letter to Three Wives" in 1949 and "All About Eve" in1950, and is also remembered for "The Ghost and Mrs. Muir" (1947),"The Barefoot Contessa" (1954) and "Guys and Dolls" (1955).He remained sharp-tongued all of his days. When "All About Eve" wasrecycled into the Broadway musical "Applause," Mankiewicz observedthat the studio had received "infinitely more" in royalties than itpaid him for writing and directing the film. He said he had no complaints. Thereason they have the "no refunds" sign in the theater ticket window,he said, is to keep the rubes from calling the cops.