My father loved the Marx Brothers above all other comedians or,indeed, all other movie stars. The first movie he ever took me to was "ADay at the Races." All I remember about that experience was the fact of myfather's laughter. But there was something else, too, that I understood onlymuch later: The sound of his voice as he described the brothers. He used thetone that people employ when they are talking about how someone got away withsomething. Thatis the same tone I have heard, and used, in discussing such subjects as"Some Like It Hot," "The Producers," "BlazingSaddles," "Airplane!," Monty Python,Andy Kaufman, SaturdayNight Live, "South Park,"Howard Stern, "There's Something AboutMary" and "BeingJohn Malkovich" - -and even movies that areonly indirectly comedies, like "Pulp Fiction." There is a kind ofadmiration for material that dares something against the rules and yet isobvious, irresistibly, funny. How much more anarchic the Marx Brothers musthave seemed in their time than we can understand today. They were among thefirst to evoke that tone; you can see who the Marx Brothers inspired, but notwho they were inspired by, except indirectly by the rich traditions of musichall, vaudeville and Yiddish comedy that nurtured them. Advertisement Moviesgave them a mass audience, and they were the instrument that translated whatwas once essentially a Jewish style of humor into the dominant note of Americancomedy. Although they were not taken as seriously, they were as surrealist asDali, as shocking as Stravinsky, as verbally outrageous as Gertrude Stein, asalienated as Kafka. Because they worked the genres of slapstick and screwball,they did not get the same kind of attention, but their effect on the popularmind was probably more influential. "As an absurdist essay on politics andwarfare," wrote the British critic Patrick McCray, " `Duck Soup' canstand alongside (or even above) the works of Beckett and Ionesco." TheMarx Brothers created a body of work in which individual films are like slicesfrom the whole, but "Duck Soup" (1933) is probably the best. Itrepresents a turning point in their movie work; it was their last film forParamount, and the last in which all of the scenes directly involved thebrothers. When it was a box office disappointment, they moved over to MGM,where production chief Irving Thalberg ordered their plots to find room forconventional romantic couples, as if audiences could only take so much Marxbefore they demanded the mediocre (Buster Keaton's sound comedies for MGMsuffered from the same meddling and dilution). "ANight at the Opera" (1935) their first MGM film, contains some of theirbest work, yes, but in watching it I fast-forward over the sappy interludesinvolving Kitty Carlisle and Allan Jones. In "Duck Soup" there are nosequences I can skip; the movie is funny from beginning to end. Todescribe the plot would be an exercise in futility, since a Marx Brothers movieexists in moments, bits, sequences, business and dialogue, not incomprehensible stories. Very briefly, "Duck Soup" stars Groucho asRufus T. Firefly, who becomes dictator of Fredonia under the sponsorship of therich Mrs. Teasdale (Margaret Dumont, the brothers' tireless and irreplaceablefoil). Neighboring Sylvania and its Ambassador Trintino (Louis Calhern) havedesigns on the country, and Trintino hires Harpo and Chico as spies. Thisflimsy premise provides a clothesline for one inspired sequence after another,including sustained examples of Groucho's puns and sneaky double entendres. Butit also supports a couple of wordless physical sequences that probably havetheir roots in the vaudeville acts the brothers performed and saw yearsearlier. Advertisement Oneis the three-hat routine involving Chico and Harpo and the straight man EdgarKennedy (who started with Mack Sennett and Chaplin). Chico, as a spy,inexplicably adopts the cover of a peanut vendor, and Harpo is a passerby.Kennedy has the lemonade cart next to Chico's peanut cart, and the brothersmake his life miserable in a routine that involves their three hats changingposition as quickly as the cards in a monte game. Theother sequence is one of the gems of the first century of film. Harpo disguiseshimself as Groucho, and for reasons much too complicated to explain, sneaksinto Mrs. Teasdale's, tries to break into a safe and shatters a mirror. Grouchohimself comes downstairs to investigate. Harpo is standing inside the frame ofthe broken mirror, and tries to avoid detection by pretending to be Groucho'sreflection. This leads to a sustained pantomime involving flawless timing, asGroucho tries to catch the reflection in an error, and Harpo matches everymove. Finally, in a perfect escalation of zaniness, Chico blunders into theframe, also dressed as Groucho. Itis impossible to discuss Groucho's dialogue without quoting it, and pointlessto quote it since Groucho's delivery is essential to the effect. He played anutterly irreverent character whose speech was at the mercy of puns, insults andbawdy insinuations that tiptoed just this side of the censors (as when Rufus T.Firefly tantalizes Mrs. Teasdale with visions of marriage and then confesses,"All I can offer you is a Rufus over your head"). Many gifted comedywriters, including S.J. Perelman, labored over the Marx Brothers movie scripts,but all their dialogue had its origins in Groucho's own speaking style,perfected over the years. In1972 I was able to spend some time with Groucho, for a profile for Esquire. Hewas then 81, and still unmistakably occupying the persona he had made famous.(Who he was in private remains a mystery to me; in public he was alwaysonstage.) His first words to me could have been said in more or less the sameway by Rufus T. Firefly: "Esquire isn't my favorite magazine, you know.Interviews are really murder. They keep asking you questions. I could bebrought up on a rape charge. I don't mind a hatchet job, if it's truthful.Couldyou pin a rape charge on me? Couldyou try? I'd appreciate it. You don't do any dental work, do you? I have to goto the dentist before I go to France." Advertisement Intwo sessions separated by a couple of weeks, I heard him talk for hours at atime, always in the same way, circling his material looking for loopholes. Ibegan to think of him as a soloist, and speech as his instrument. Like a good musician,he no longer had to think of the notes; he worked in terms of timing and thethrough-line, and questions did not inspire answers but improvisations. Grouchoas a comedian would have been impossible in the silent era, just as Chaplin andKeaton adapted only uncertainly to sound. And yet in appearance the threeessential brothers (Zeppo seemed superfluous) were like caricatures from thesilent era. Harpo of course was always silent anyway. Chico had the Italianpersona, with the curly hair and Pinocchio hat. And Groucho was such anartificial creation, with his bold slash of a greasepaint mustache, hiseyebrows and his cigar. His look was so bizarre it wasn't makeup so much as amask; there are times during the mirror sequence in "Duck Soup" whenwe have to ask ourselves which one is the real Groucho. Datedas "Duck Soup" inevitably is in some respects, it has moments thatseem startlingly modern, as when Groucho calls for help during the closingbattle sequence, and the response is stock footage edited together out ofnewsreel shots of fire engines, elephants, motorcycles, you name it. There isan odd moment when Harpo shows Groucho a doghouse tattooed on his stomach, andin a special effect a real dog emerges and barks at him. The brothers broke theclassical structure of movie comedy and glued it back again haphazardly, andnothing was ever the same. Note:Why the title? The critic Tim Dirks explains: "It is claimed that Grouchoprovided the following recipe: `Take two turkeys, one goose, four cabbages, butno duck, and mix them together. After one taste, you'll duck soup the rest ofyour life.' "Two Groucho Marx interviews are available on RogerEbert.com: Onefrom     1970    ,and another from     1972    .