To live happily ever after with the one you love, you must beable to live with them at all. It is not that simple. Little problems must beworked out. She does not like cats on the table while she is eating. He has acloset filled with a year's dirty laundry. She treasures their private momentstogether. He treasures his best friend, who is bearded and garrulous andarrives at meals in an undershirt. She wants to see Paris. He worries about hiswork. You see how it is. JeanVigo's "L'Atalante" (1934) tells such a love story. It is on manylists of the greatest films, a distinction that obscures how down to earth itis, how direct in its story of a new marriage off to a shaky start. The FrenchdirectorFrancois Truffautfell in love with it one Saturday afternoon in 1946,when he was 14: "When I entered the theater, I didn't even know who JeanVigo was. I was immediately overwhelmed with wild enthusiasm for hiswork." Hearing a critic attack another movie because "it smells likedirty feet," Truffaut considered that a compliment, and thought of Vigoand the pungent life he evoked on a French canal barge. Advertisement Truffautsaw Vigo's life work that afternoon in Paris; it added up to less than 200minutes. Legends swirled around the director, who died of tuberculosis at 29,just a few months after the premiere. Already famous for "Zero forConduct" (1933), he was so ill when he made "L'Atalante" duringan unusually cold winter that sometimes he directed from a stretcher: "Itis easy to conclude that he was in a kind of fever while he worked,"Truffaut wrote, and when a friend advised him to guard his health, Vigo repliedthat "he lacked the time and had to give everything right away." Thefilm premiered to polite responses in Paris and at the Venice Film Festival;London critics were its first great champions. It was seen for years in abutchered version, chopped down from 89 to 65 minutes, and only in 1990 was itrestored. That version is now available on video. Inoutline, "L'Atalante" seems a simple story. It begins with themarriage of a young barge captain named Jean and a village girl named Juliette"who always had to do things differently." There is no wedding feast.Still wearing her wedding dress, she holds to a boom and swings on board thebarge, to begin life not only with her husband but also with his massive andshambling friend Jules, a sailor who has been to Yokohama and Singapore, butnow plies the waterways between Le Havre and Paris. The barge is furthercrowded by a cabin boy and at least six cats. Juliettemakes the best of her situation. When the cat has kittens in her bed, shestrips the sheets over the objections of Jules, who sees no need for suchfastidiousness. One night on the radio she hears the magic words, "This isParis!" She has never been to Paris, or anywhere else. When the bargearrives in the city, Jean tells her to get dressed up for a night on thetown--but Jules slips off in search of fleshy pleasures, and they must staywith the boat. Eventually she slips off alone to the city, planning to be backbefore she is missed. Jean finds her gone and angrily resumes the journey. Thebarge is missing when she returns. . . . Advertisement Thesedetails fail to evoke the enchanted quality of "L'Atalante," which isnot about what lovers do, but about how they feel--how tender they are, howsensitive and foolish. The film is shot in a poetic way that sees them as thefigures in a myth; Atalante is not only the barge name but the name of a Greekgoddess who, says Brewer's Dictionary, "being very swift of foot, refusedto marry unless the suitor should first defeat her in a race." Can it bethat Jean and Juliette were racing away from one another, and he did a betterjob of it? Themovie's effect comes through the way it evokes specific moments in the life ofthe young couple, rather than tying them to a plot. They will be the momentsthat memory illuminates 50 years from now, when everything else has grownvague. Consider their first morning, as the waking couple is serenaded by anaccordion and a bargeman's song. The argument over the laundry. Anextraordinary moment when old Jules and Juliette are alone in the cabin, and heseems almost ready to assault her, but she distracts him with the dress she ismaking, and gets him to model it. And how her unexpected cheerfulness (did sheeven sense any danger?) inspires him to show her the treasures of his life,climaxing with a jar that contains the hands of his best friend ("all thatis left of him"). Thereis a sequence in a canalside bistro where a magician flirts with her, temptsher with pretty scarves, dances with her and enrages Jules. The man paints wordpictures of Paris that echo in her imagination until shemustgo see the city for herself--notto be disloyal to Jean, but because she is like a little girl who cannot helpherself. Theirseparation is so painful for them both. Her early joy turns into fear; herpurse is stolen, hawk-faced men make lewd suggestions, the city is no longermagical. Jean holds his head in anguish. And then Vigo releases all the pent-uploneliness with a bold gesture. Earlier, Juliette told Jean that when she puther face into water and opened her eyes, she could see her true love: "Isaw you before I met you." Now in desperation Jean plunges into the icycanal, and Juliette's smiling presence swims up before him. "This mustcount as one of the most dazzling images of a loving woman in the history ofthe cinema," wrote the novelist Marina Warner. Advertisement AfterJean climbs back on board, the old man and the cabin boy try to cheer him withmusic, but he wanders off and, in a heartbreaking shot, embraces a block of iceas if it is his love. Julietteis played by Dita Parlo, a legendary Berlin-born actress who made 22 filmsbetween 1928 and 1939, and one more in 1965. Her other famous role was as thefarm woman who takes in the escaped convicts in Renoir's "GrandIllusion" (1937). Madonna's bookSexwas inspired, she said, by Parloin "L'Atalante." Garboesque in the pale refinement of her face, sheseems too elegant to be an untraveled country girl, but that quality works whenit is set beside Michel Simon's crusty old Jules. Simon,not yet 40 when the film was made, looks 60, weathered by salt air and pickledin seaport saloons. Inspired by the sight of the two young lovers kissing, hehas his best moment when he demonstrates how he can wrestle, too--and grappleswith himself on the deck, while Vigo dissolves between exposures to make himinto two lonely ghosts fighting for possession of the same body. JeanDaste, who plays Jean, conveys the helplessness of a young man who knows he isin love but knows nothing about the practical side of a relationship--how hemust see Juliette's needs and intuit what wounds her. Although the film endswith everyone joyously back on board, we doubt, somehow, that we have seentheir last fight. Themovie's look is softly poetic. Vigo and his cinematographer,Boris Kaufman, whoyears later labored for Preminger in Hollywood, shot mostly on location,capturing the cold winter canal landscapes, the smoky bistros, the crampedliving quarters, the magnificence of the muscular old barge as water pours intolocks to lift it up to Paris. This is the kind of movie you return to like afavorite song, remembering where you were and how it made you feel, and how itsfeet smelled.