You mustn't make fun of the gentleman, Clifford. You'dlike to have a nose like that full of nickels, wouldn't you?-- Mother to son about Egbert Sousé W.C. Fields is the most improbable star in the first century of the movies, a manwidely (and accurately) thought to be drunk during most of his adult life, whocreated a screen character that hated women, children and dogs and could not beredeemed even by the requirements of the Hollywood censors. During Fields'career, industry standards required good to be rewarded and evildoing punished,but in "The Bank Dick" Fields plays an alcoholic misanthrope wholies, cheats and steals and is rewarded with wealth and fame. Advertisement "TheBank Dick" (1940) is probably Fields' best film, but his career residesnot so much in individual films as in scenes and moments scattered here andthere between his first short subject, in 1915, and his last films in themid-1940s. He recycled material tirelessly. Bits from his vaudeville act werebeing dusted off 40 years later, and he always played more or less the samecharacter. Even as Mr. Micawber in "David Copperfield" (1935), hismost disciplined and polished performance, he was recognizably himself incostume (or, it could be argued, Micawber was simply an earlier fictionalversion of Fields). TodayFields (1880-1946) is not as well known as he once was. Even his revival in the1960s has been forgotten. No doubt the wheel of memory will revolve to bringhim back into fashion, because his appeal is timeless: It is the appeal of theman who cheerfully embraces a life of antisocial hedonism, basking in serenecontentment with his own flaws. He is self-contained. Fieldswas an accomplished juggler as a youth on the vaudeville stage, and seems tohave come into his screen persona gradually, helped by the introduction ofsound, which permitted audiences to hear his peculiar nasal twang. As acomedian, he had unusual timing: His dialogue does not end in punch lines thatinvite laughter, but trails off into implications and insinuations of thingsbetter left unsaid. Audiences suspected he was sneaking double meanings pastthe censors, and they were right. Legendhas it he wanted his tombstone to read"Onthe whole, I'd rather be in Philadelphia."During his lifetime, on the whole,he'd rather be in a bar. He was a serious drinker who was often under adoctor's care, checked into sanitariums between movies and died a horriblealcoholic's death. David Thomson has written of "the mottling of his sadface. " Thathe nevertheless brought exquisite timing to his performances and joy to hisaudiences exhibits a species of courage, and of course on the days when thebooze was working he could be playful and entertaining; his Hollywood partieswere eagerly attended even if the host was seldom conscious at theirconclusion. Advertisement "Iknew Fields well," Groucho Marx told me in 1972. "He used to sit inthe bushes in front of his house with a BB gun and shoot at people. Today he'dprobably be arrested. He invited me over to his house. He had a girlfriendthere. I think her name was Carlotta Monti.Car-lot-taMON-ti!That's the kind of aname a girl of Fields would have. He had a ladder leading up to his attic.Without exaggeration, there was $50,000 in liquor up there. Crated up like awharf. I'm standing there and Fields is standing there, and nobody saysanything. The silence is oppressive. Finally he speaks:This will carry me 25 years." Storieslike that were well known to Fields' fans, and contributed to the legend thatdrew crowds to his movies. He also became famous for a long-running feud withCharlie McCarthy, the dummy of the ventriloquist Edgar Bergen and for onscreenhostility to small children, who were hostile right back at him. "Shall Ibounce a rock off his head?" asks Elsie, his daughter in "The BankDick," and her mother tells her, "Respect your father, darling. Whatkind of a rock?" Fieldswas paid $125,000 a picture in his later years, a good salary, and insisted onanother $15,000 for his "screenplays," which consisted of mentalnotes and scrawlings on the backs of envelopes. The synopsis of any of hisfilms is hallucinatory. My source is his biographer, Robert Lewis Taylor, whowrites that "My Little Chickadee" (1940) and "Never Give aSucker an Even Break" (1941), two of his best-known films, "willprobably stand up among the worst movies ever made," but tellingly adds:"This scarcely detracts from their overall worth." Youdidn't go for a good movie. You went for Fields, and for the surrealism of hisplots. Consider "The Bank Dick," which in he plays a man named EgbertSousé ("accent grave upon the e") -- an unhappily married drunk whoaccidentally catches a thief, is rewarded with a job at the bank and falls inwith a con man. Atone point he wanders into his favorite bar, the Black Pussy Cat (bartender:Shemp Howard), and meets a movie producer who hires him on the spot to fill infor A. Pismo Clam, the director of a movie being made in town. Fields arriveson the set, announces that the story will switch from an English drawing roomdrama to a circus picture, and begins to instruct the actors for a footballscrimmage. The male lead is very tall, the female lead very short ("Is shestanding in a hole?") and after several funny minutes Fields simply walksoff the set, and the directing job is never referred to again until a chasescene at the end of the film. Advertisement Thiskind of abrupt disconnect is common in Fields movies. Even a Marx Brothers plotwas a masterpiece of construction by comparison. One sketch segues into anotherone, not seamlessly, and no effort is made at realism. (In his famous short"The Fatal Glass of Beer," he repeatedly looks out a cabin door,intones "It's not a fit night out for man nor beast," and is hit inthe face with what is obviously a handful of soap flakes hurled from just outof sight.) Assimilatingthe unique fact of W.C. Fields is a lifelong occupation for any filmgoer,conducted from time to time according to no particular plan. There is not asingle Fields film that "must" be seen in order to qualify as aliterate movie lover, and yet if you are not eventually familiar with Fieldsyou are not a movie lover at all. What is amazing about him is that he existsat all. He is not lovely, and although he is graceful it is a lugubrious grace,a kind of balance in a high psychic wind. All of his scenes depend, in one wayor another, on sharing his private state: He is unloved, he detests life, he ishung over, he wants a drink, he is startled by sudden movements and loudnoises, he has no patience for fools, everyone is a fool, and middle-classmorality is a conspiracy against the man who wants to find surcease inalcoholic bliss. These are not the feelings of his characters; they are his ownfeelings. Fieldsmet his match in "My Little Chickadee" when he co-starred with MaeWest, another Hollywood force of nature. They wrote their scenes separately, welearn. She could not stand his drinking, Taylor reports, and although Fields at60 was far from West's usual muscle builder type, he grew boozily enamored ofher, at one point fondly referring to her off-camera as "my littlebroodmare." Pauline Kael finds "Chickadee" "a classic amongbad movies," observing that it never really gets off the ground, "butthe ground is such an honest mixture of dirt, manure and corn that at times itis fairly aromatic." Only Fields would compliment a woman, after kissingher hand, by observing, "What symmetrical digits!" Only West wouldhave been able to look complimented.