Among the movies we not only love but treasure, “The MalteseFalcon” stands as a great divide. Consider what was true after its release in1941 and was not true before: (1) The movie defined Humphrey Bogart's performances for therest of his life; his hard-boiled Sam Spade rescued him from a decade ofmiddling roles in B gangster movies and positioned him for “Casablanca,” “Treasureof the Sierra Madre,” “The African Queen” and his other classics. (2)It was the first film directed byJohn Huston, who for more than 40 years wouldbe a prolific maker of movies that were muscular, stylish and daring. Advertisement (3)It contained the first screen appearance of Sydney Greenstreet, who went on, in“Casablanca” and many other films, to become one of the most striking characteractors in movie history. (4)It was the first pairing of Greenstreet andPeter Lorre, and so well did theywork together that they made nine other movies, including “Casablanca” in 1942and “The Mask of Dimitrios” (1944), in which they were not supporting actorsbut actually the stars. (5)And some film histories consider “The Maltese Falcon” the first film noir. Itput down the foundations for that native American genre of mean streets, knife-edgedheroes, dark shadows and tough dames. Ofcourse film noir was waiting to be born. It was already there in the novels ofDashiell Hammett, who wrote The Maltese Falcon, and the work of RaymondChandler, James M. Cain, John O'Hara and the other boys in the back room. “Downthese mean streets a man must go who is not himself mean,” wrote Chandler, andthat was true of his hero Philip Marlowe (another Bogart character). But itwasn't true of Hammett's Sam Spade, whowasmean, and who set the stage for adecade in which unsentimental heroes talked tough and cracked wise. Themoment everyone remembers from “The Maltese Falcon” comes near the end, whenBrigid O'Shaughnessy (Mary Astor) has been collared for murdering Spade'spartner. She says she loves Spade. She asks if Sam loves her. She pleads forhim to spare her from the law. And he replies, in a speech some people canquote by heart, “I hope they don't hang you, precious, by that sweet neck. . .. The chances are you'll get off with life. That means if you're a good girl,you'll be out in 20 years. I'll be waiting for you. If they hang you, I'llalways remember you.” Advertisement Cold.Spade is cold and hard, like his name. When he gets the news that his partnerhas been murdered, he doesn't blink an eye. Didn't like the guy. Kisses hiswidow the moment they're alone together. Beats up Joel Cairo (Lorre) not justbecause he has to, but because he carries a perfumed handkerchief, and you knowwhat that meant in a 1941 movie. Turns the rough stuff on and off. Losespatience with Greenstreet, throws his cigar into the fire, smashes his glass,barks out a threat, slams the door and then grins to himself in the hallway,amused by his own act. Ifhe didn't like his partner, Spade nevertheless observes a sort of codeinvolving his death. “When a man's partner is killed,” he tells Brigid, “he'ssupposed to do something about it.” He doesn't like the cops, either; the onlyperson he really seems to like is his secretary, Effie (Lee Patrick), who sitson his desk, lights his cigarettes, knows his sins and accepts them. How doBogart and Huston get away with making such a dark guy the hero of a film?Because he does his job according to the rules he lives by, and because wesense (as we always would with Bogart after this role) that the toughnessconceals old wounds and broken dreams. JohnHuston had worked as a writer at Warner Bros. before convincing the studio tolet him direct. “The Maltese Falcon” was his first choice, even though it hadbeen filmed twice before by Warners (in 1931 under the same title and in 1936as “Satan Met a Lady”). “They were such wretched pictures,” Huston told hisbiographer, Lawrence Grobel. He saw Hammett's vision more clearly, saw that thestory was not about plot but about character, saw that to soften Sam Spadewould be deadly, fought the tendency (even then) for the studio to pine for ahappy ending. Advertisement Whenhe finished his screenplay, he set to work story-boarding it, sketching everyshot. That was the famous method ofAlfred Hitchcock, whose “Rebecca” won theOscar as the best picture of 1940. LikeOrson Welles, who was directing “CitizenKane” across town, Huston was excited by new stylistic possibilities; he gavegreat thought to composition and camera movement. To view the film in astop-action analysis, as I have, is to appreciate complex shots that work sowell they seem simple. Huston and his cinematographer, Arthur Edeson,accomplished things that in their way were as impressive as what Welles andGregg Tolandwere doing on “Kane.” Consideran astonishing unbroken seven-minute take. Grobel's bookThe Hustonsquotes Meta Wilde, Huston'slongtime script supervisor: “It was an incredible camera setup. We rehearsedtwo days. The camera followed Greenstreet and Bogart from one room intoanother, then down a long hallway and finally into a living room; there thecamera moved up and down in what is referred to as a boom-up and boom-downshot, then panned from left to right and back to Bogart's drunken face; thenext pan shot was to Greenstreet's massive stomach from Bogart's point of view.. . . One miss and we had to begin all over again.” Wasthe shot just a stunt? Not at all; most viewers don't notice it because they'reswept along by its flow. And consider another shot, where Greenstreet chattersabout the falcon while waiting for a drugged drink to knock out Bogart.Huston's strategy is crafty. Earlier, Greenstreet has set it up by making apoint: “I distrust a man who says 'when.' If he's got to be careful not todrink too much, it's because he's not to be trusted when he does.” Now heoffers Bogart a drink, but Bogart doesn't sip from it. Greenstreet talks on,and tops up Bogart's glass. He still doesn't drink. Greenstreet watches himnarrowly. They discuss the value of the missing black bird. Finally, Bogartdrinks, and passes out. The timing is everything; Huston doesn't give uscloseups of the glass to underline the possibility that it's drugged. Hedepends on the situation to generate the suspicion in our minds. (This was, bythe way, Greenstreet's first scene in the movies.) Advertisement Theplot is the last thing you think of about “The Maltese Falcon.” The black bird(said to be made of gold and encrusted with jewels) has been stolen, men havebeen killed for it, and now Gutman (Greenstreet) has arrived with his lackeys(Lorre and Elisha Cook Jr.) to get it back. Spade gets involved because theMary Astor character hires him to--but the plot goes around and around, andeventually we realize that the black bird is an example of Hitchcock's “MacGuffin”--itdoesn't matter what it is, so long as everyone in the story wants or fears it. Todescribe the plot in a linear and logical fashion is almost impossible. Thatdoesn't matter. The movie is essentially a series of conversations punctuatedby brief, violent interludes. It's all style. It isn't violence or chases, butthe way the actors look, move, speak and embody their characters. Under thestyle is attitude: Hard men, in a hard season, in a society emerging fromDepression and heading for war, are motivated by greed and capable of murder.For an hourly fee, Sam Spade will negotiate this terrain. Everything there isto know about Sam Spade is contained in the scene where Bridget asks for hishelp and he criticizes her performance: “You're good. It's chiefly your eyes, Ithink--and that throb you get in your voice when you say things like, 'begenerous, Mr. Spade.' “ He always stands outside, sizing things up. FewHollywood heroes before 1941 kept such a distance from the conventional pietiesof the plot.