Fellini lore has it that the master made “Juliet of the Spirits”as a gift for his wife. Like many husbands, he gave her the gift he reallywanted for himself. The movie, starring a sad-eyedGiulietta Masinawho fearsher husband is cheating, suggests she'd be happier if she were more like herneighbor, a buxom temptress who entertains men in a tree house. Fellini believed the movie turned the tables on his two previousfilms, "La Dolce Vita” and "8 1/2,” which were autobiographicallaments about his own problems. This one, he felt, was about Giulietta.Watching it, I was reminded of Daryl F. Zanuck, who said, “But enough about me!What did you think of my movie?” “Juliet of the Spirits” is not an attempt toidentify with Masina's point of view, but a bald-faced exercise in Fellini'sself-justification. When Juliet has fantasies, they're Fellini's fantasies.That's why at the end it isn't Federico who is burned alive. Advertisement One clue to the movie's buried message is in the casting.Giulietta Masina plays Juliet, a chain-smoker with a trim little haircut and anunderstated wardrobe.Sandra Miloplays her neighbor Suzy, dressed flamboyantlyin tight colors, feather boas, and necklines that flaunt her charms. In “8 1/2,”about a harassed and philandering movie director, the wife is also achain-smoker with a trim haircut--and the mistress is played by Sandra Milo,who looks exactly as she does here. In “8 1/2,” the director has a daydream inwhich in which his wife and mistress are friends who share in his care andfeeding. In “Juliet of the Spirits,” Fellini seems to be suggesting that ifonly his wife were more like this pneumatic sex toy, she would be happier. Ourconclusion: She might not be happier, but her husband certainly would be. The movie is generally considered to mark the beginning ofFellini's decline. Some feel his great days came in the 1950s, with theneorealism of “La Strada” (1954). International success came to him with “LaDolce Vita” (1959) starringMarcello Mastroianniin his first great role as ajournalist who tries to balance his job, his marriage, his mistress, his eroticdaydreams and his vague ambitions. I think it's Fellini's best movie; otherswould argue for “8 1/2” (1963), which is about a director trying to make amovie despite personal, professional and health problems. By the time of “Julietof the Spirits,” the conventional view has it, Fellini was on autopilot, usinghis waltzing camera and jolly Nina Rota scores to recycle his phantasmagoricalvisions of human grotesques on parade. The only later film widely admired is “Amarcord”(1974). Sometimes, however, you get your best look at an artist's stylewhen he's indulging it. “Juliet of the Spirits,” Fellini's first film in color,is the work of a director who has cut loose from the realism of his early workand is toying with the images, situations and obsessions that delight him. Itis well known that young Federico experienced some kind of psychic fixationduring his first visit to the circus, and all of his films feature processionsor parades. It may not be too much to suggest that the sight of bizarrecharacters walking in time to music has a sexual component for Fellini, whoalmost always composes the scenes the same way: Characters in background andmiddle distance walk in procession in time with one another, and then aforeground face appears in frame, eager to comment. Advertisement In “Juliet,” one of the most delightful parades occurs on theseaside, where plain Juliet has gone with her sisters and their children.Across the sand, she sees Suzy in procession with her friends, admirers, servantsand followers, dressed in bright yellow, protected by gaudy parasols, settingup a tent on the sand, beckoning invitingly to her. Later, when Juliet visitsher neighbor to return her strayed cat, Suzy shares her philosophy: Marriage isa life sentence for a woman, Juliet should indulge herself with one of theboy-toys Suzy can make available, her husband is not worth fretting over, etc.Suzy's home includes a chute that leads straight from her bed to a swimmingpool, and a treehouse with an electric hoist that hauls up her lovers in awicker basket. Suzy's lifestyle may or may not be the answer to Juliet'sconcerns, but her home certainly looks like a bordello that Fellini might liketo visit. Juliet's liberating experiences also include a seance with a medium(this is an echo from La Dolce Vita), and fears of liturgical punishment (thefearsome nuns in one scene echo the stern priests of “8 1/2,” and both appear inflashbacks to childhood). What Fellini is doing, not subtly, is returning tohis earlier films for images which he now applies to a heroine instead of ahero. Giulietta Masina was a wonderful actress (see “La Strada” and “Nightsof Cabiria”) but is it my imagination, or does she seem unhappy throughout muchof “Juliet of the Spirits?” Masina and Fellini were said to be going through adifficult season of their marriage as the film was made (international fame hadtransformed Fellini from a hard-working Italian director to a star who welcomedhis new privileges with open arms). Certainly Fellini does not present her assomeone it would be fun to be married to. She's a house-proud little bourgeoisHummel figurine, meek, frumpy, sexually timid. As Juliet makes her way throughscene after scene of harem fantasies and busty tarts on parade, she looks likenothing more than an unwilling housewife dragged by her husband to a strip showhe is sure they will both enjoy. Advertisement This perception of Giuiletta/Juliet's withdrawn unhappiness addsa melancholy undertone to the movie. She's the party pooper. What was shethinking while she made the film? That first her husband flaunts his taste ingrotesque eroticism, and then expects his wife to star in a movie where she'ssurrounded by it? The movie's last shot shows Juliette leaving her storybookhome and walking off toward the nearby woods. The director and his wife arguedabout the meaning of this scene. To Fellini, this meant she was free. ToGiulietta Masina, we learn, it meant that she was alone, abandoned and lonely. This subtext makes the movie more interesting than it would havebeen if Fellini had been more in control of his fugitive thoughts and impulses.And it never less than dazzling to look at. It's all pretty pictures and themusic of that promenading camera. In any Fellini picture and especially thosefrom “La Dolce Vita” onward, characters seem to glide as if moving to unheardmusic. In fact, they were. Fellini, like all Italian directors of his time, didnot record live sound on his sets, but dubbed all the dialog and sound effectslater. That meant he was essentially making silent films, and he always had anorchestra or a record-player on the set to play music, instructing his actorsto walk in time. The Nina Rota scores often sound like dance music, andfrequently quote old standards; the result is a film that sometimes seems onthe brink of bursting into a musical. After “Juliet,” Fellini made “Fellini Satyricon” (1970). Nowthat both of these movies have been re-released in newly mastered and restored35mm prints, we can see him as the master of his canvas. He was a storytellerearly in his career, but became a painter of moving images, and those whofixate on plots or messages are hunting in the wrong field. “Juliet” movie wasreleased in America in 1966, and some audiences no doubt attended in anexpanded state of consciousness. They were in the right show: A head trip, asthey said. Seen in 2001, when the party is long over, it's like a streamer fromlast summer's dances: Still bright, still gaily waving to echoes of forgottenmusic. Fellini was nominated for 12 Academy Awards, but never won one.In 1993, he was given an honorary Oscar, presented by old friends MarcelloMastroianni andSophia Loren, and as he accepted it Giulietta wept happily inthe front row. He died in October of that year. She survived him by fivemonths. Advertisement