What a bold, mad act of genius it was, to make “Lawrence ofArabia,” or even think that it could be made. In the words years later of oneof its stars,Omar Sharif: “If you are the man with the money and somebodycomes to you and says he wants to make a film that's four hours long, with nostars, and no women, and no love story, and not much action either, and hewants to spend a huge amount of money to go film it in the desert--what wouldyou say?” The impulse to make this movie was based, above all, onimagination. The story of “Lawrence” is not founded on violent battle scenes orcheap melodrama, but on David Lean's ability to imagine what it would look liketo see a speck appear on the horizon of the desert, and slowly grow into ahuman being. He had to know how that would feel before he could convincehimself that the project had a chance of being successful. Advertisement There is a moment in the film when the hero, the Britisheccentric soldier and author T.E. Lawrence, has survived a suicidal trek acrossthe desert and is within reach of shelter and water--and he turns around andgoes back, to find a friend who has fallen behind. This sequence builds up tothe shot in which the shimmering heat of the desert reluctantly yields thespeck that becomes a man--a shot that is held for a long time before we caneven begin to see the tiny figure. On television, this shot doesn't work atall--nothing can be seen. In a movie theater, looking at the stark clarity of a70mm print, we lean forward and strain to bring a detail out of the waves ofheat, and for a moment we experience some of the actual vastness of the desert,and its unforgiving harshness. By being able to imagine that sequence, Lean was able to imaginewhy the movie would work. “Lawrence of Arabia” is not a simple biography or anadventure movie--although it contains both elements--but a movie that uses thedesert as a stage for the flamboyance of a driven, quirky man. Although it istrue that Lawrence was instrumental in enlisting the desert tribes on theBritish side in the 1914-17 campaign against the Turks, the movie suggests thathe acted less out of patriotism than out of a need to reject conventionalBritish society, choosing to identify with the wildness and theatricality ofthe Arabs. There was also a sexual component, involving his masochism. T.E. Lawrence must be the strangest hero ever to stand at thecenter of an epic. To play him, Lean cast one of the strangest of actors, PeterO'Toole, a lanky, almost clumsy man with a beautiful sculptured face and aspeaking manner that hesitates between amusement and insolence. O'Toole'sassignment was a delicate one. Although it was widely believed that Lawrencewas a homosexual, a multimillion-dollar epic filmed in 1962 could not be frankabout that. And yet Lean and his writer,Robert Bolt, didn't simply cave in andrewrite Lawrence into a routine action hero. Everything is here for thosewilling to look for it. Advertisement Using O'Toole's peculiar speech and manner as their instrument,they created a character who combined charisma and craziness, who was so differentfrom conventional military heroes that he could inspire the Arabs to follow himin a mad march across the desert. There is a moment in the movie when O'Toole,dressed in the flowing white robes of a desert sheik, does a victory dance ontop of a captured Turkish train, and he almost seems to be posing for fashionphotos. This is a curious scene because it seems to flaunt gay stereotypes, andyet none of the other characters in the movie seem to notice--nor do they takemuch notice of the two young desert urchins that Lawrence takes under hisprotection. What Lean, Bolt and O'Toole create is a sexually and sociallyunconventional man who is simply presented as what he is, without labels orcomment. Could such a man rally the splintered desert tribes and win a waragainst the Turks? Lawrence did. But he did it partially with mirrors, themovie suggests; one of the key characters is an American journalist (ArthurKennedy), obviously inspired by Lowell Thomas, who single-handedly launderedand retailed the Lawrence myth to the English-language press. The journalistadmits he is looking for a hero to write about. Lawrence is happy to play therole. And only role-playing would have done the job; an ordinary military herowould have been too small for this canvas. For a movie that runs 216 minutes, plus intermission, “Lawrenceof Arabia” is not dense with plot details. It is a spare movie in clean,uncluttered lines, and there is never a moment when we're in doubt about thelogistical details of the various campaigns. Law-rence is able to unite variousdesert factions, the movie argues, because (1) he is so obviously an outsiderthat he cannot even understand, let alone take sides with, the various ancientrivalries; and (2) because he is able to show the Arabs that it is in their ownself-interest to join the war against the Turks. Along the way he makes alliesof such desert leaders as Sherif Ali (Omar Sharif), Prince Feisal (AlecGuinness) and Auda Abu Tayi (Anthony Quinn), both by winning their respect andby appealing to their logic. The dialogue in these scenes is not complex, andsometimes Bolt makes it so spare it sounds like poetry. Advertisement I've noticed that when people remember “Lawrence of Arabia,”they don't talk about the details of the plot. They get a certain look in theireye, as if they are remembering the whole experience, and have never quite beenable to put it into words. Although it seems to be a traditional narrativefilm--like “The Bridge on the River Kwai,” which Lean made just before it, or "Doctor Zhivago," which he made just after--it actually has more in common with suchessentially visual epics as Kubrick's "2001: A Space Odyssey," or Eisenstein's “Alexander Nevsky.”It is spectacle and experience, and its ideas are about things you can see orfeel, not things you can say. Much of its appeal is based on the fact that itdoes not contain a complex story with a lot of dialogue; we remember the quiet,empty passages, the sun rising across the desert, the intricate lines traced bythe wind in the sand. Although it won the Academy Award as the year's best picture in1962, “Lawrence of Arabia” might have been lost if it hadn't been for the filmrestorers Robert A. Harris and Jim Painten. They discovered the originalnegative in Columbia's vaults, inside crushed and rusting film cans, and alsoabout 35 minutes of footage that had been trimmed by distributors from Lean'sfinal cut. They put it together again, sometimes by one crumbling frame at atime (Harris sent me one of the smashed cans as a demonstration of Hollywood'scarelessness with its heritage). To see it in a movie theater is to appreciate the subtlety ofF.A. (Freddie) Young's desert cinematography--achieved despite blinding heat,and the blowing sand, which worked its way into every camera. “Lawrence ofArabia” was one of the last films to actually be photographed in 70mm (asopposed to being blown up to 70 from a 35mm negative). There was a hungerwithin filmmakers like Lean (and Kubrick, Coppola, Tarkovsky, Kurosawa andStone) to break through the boundaries, to dare a big idea and have theeffrontery to impose it on timid studio executives. The word “epic” in recentyears has become synonymous with “big budget B picture.” What you realizewatching “Lawrence of Arabia” is that the word “epic” refers not to the cost orthe elaborate production, but to the size of the ideas and vision. WernerHerzog's “Aguirre, the Wrath of God” didn't cost as much as the catering in “PearlHarbor,” but it is an epic, and “Pearl Harbor” is not. Advertisement As for “Lawrence,” after its glorious re-release in 70mm in1989, it has returned again to video, where it crouches inside its box like atall man in a low room. You can view it on video and get an idea of its storyand a hint of its majesty, but to get thefeelingof Lean's masterpiece you need tosomehow, somewhere, see it in 70mm on a big screen. This experience is on theshort list of things that must be done during the lifetime of every lover offilm.Based on Ebert's 1989 review of the restored “Lawrence,” herelengthened and revised.