IfWalt Disney's “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs” had beenprimarily about Snow White, it might have been forgotten soon after its 1937premiere, and treasured today only for historical reasons, as the firstfull-length animated feature in color. Snow White is, truth to tell, a bit of abore, not a character who acts but one whose mere existence inspires others toact. The mistake of most of Disney's countless imitators over the years hasbeen to confuse the titles of his movies with their subjects. “Snow White andthe Seven Dwarfs” is not so much about Snow White or Prince Charming as aboutthe Seven Dwarfs and the evil Queen--and the countless creatures of the forestand the skies, from a bluebird that blushes to a turtle who takes forever toclimb up a flight of stairs. Advertisement Walt Disney's shorter cartoons all centered on one or a fewcentral characters with strongly-defined personalities, starting with MickeyMouse himself. They lived in simplified landscapes, and occupied stories inwhich clear objectives were boldly outlined. But when Disney decided in 1934 tomake a full-length feature, he instinctively knew that the film would have togrow not only in length but in depth. The story of Snow White as told in hissource, the Brothers Grimm, would scarcely occupy his running time, even at abrisk 83 minutes. Disney'sinspiration was not in creating Snow White but in creating her world. At a timewhen animation was a painstaking frame-by-frame activity and every additionalmoving detail took an artist days or weeks to draw, Disney imagined a film inwhich every corner and dimension would contain something that was alive andmoving. From the top to the bottom, from the front to the back, he filled theframe (which is why Disney's decision in the 1980s to release a cropped “widescreen”version was so wrong-headed, and quickly retracted). Socomplex were his frames, indeed, that Disney and his team of animators foundthat the cels they used for their short cartoons were not large enough tocontain all the details he wanted, and larger cels were needed. The film'searliest audiences may not have known the technical reasons for the film'simpact, but in the early scene where Snow White runs through the forest, theywere thrilled by the way the branches reached out to snatch at her, and how thesinister eyes in the darkness were revealed to belong to friendly woodlandanimals. The trees didn't just sit there within the frame. Advertisement Disney'sother innovation was the “multiplane camera,” which gave the illusion of threedimensions by placing several levels of drawing one behind another and movingthem separately--the ones in front faster than the ones behind, so that thebackground seemed to actually move instead of simply unscrolling. Multiplanecameras were standard in animation until the very recent use of computers,which achieve a similar but more detailed effect--too detailed, purists argue,because too lifelike. Nothinglike the techniques in “Snow White” had been seen before. Animation itself wasconsidered a child's entertainment, six minutes of gags involving mice andducks, before the newsreel and the main feature. “Snow White” demonstrated howanimation could release a movie from its trap of space and time; how gravity,dimension, physical limitations and the rules of movement itself could betranscended by the imaginations of the animators. Consideranother early example, when Snow White is singing “I'm Wishing” while lookingdown into the well. Disney gives her an audience--a dove that flutters away inmomentary fright, and then returns to hear the rest of the song. Then the pointof view shifts dramatically, and we are looking straight up at Snow White frombeneath the shimmering surface of the water in the well. The drawing is as easyto achieve as any other, but where did the imagination come from, to supplythat point of view? WaltDisney often receives credit for everything done in his name (even sometimesafter his death). He was a leader of a large group of dedicated andhard-working collaborators, who are thanked in the first frames of “Snow White,”before the full credits. But he was the visionary who guided them, and it is alittle stunning to realize that modern Disney animated features like “Beautyand the Beast,” “The Lion King” and “Aladdin,” as well as the rare hits madeoutside the Disney shop, like Dreamworks' “Shrek” and Pixar's “Toy Story,”still use to this day the basic approach that you can see full-blown in “SnowWhite.” Advertisement Themost important continuing element is the use of satellite and sidekickcharacters, minor and major, serious and comic. A frame is not allowed for longto contain only a single character, long speeches are rare, musical and dancenumbers are frequent, and the central action is underlined by the bitcharacters, who mirror it or react to it. Disney'sother insight was to make the characters physically express theirpersonalities. He did that not by giving them funny faces or distinctiveclothes (although that was part of it) but studying styles of body language andthen exaggerating them. When Snow White first comes across the cottage of thedwarfs, she goes upstairs and sees their beds, each one with a nameplate:Sleepy, Grumpy, Dopey, and so on. When the dwarfs return home from work (“Heigh-ho!Heigh-ho!”) they are frightened and resentful to find a stranger stretched acrosstheir little beds, but she quickly wins them over by calling each one by name.She knows them, of course, because they personify their names. But thatsimilarity alone would soon become boring if they didn't also act out everyspeech and movement with exaggerated body language, and if their very clothingdidn't seem to move in sympathy with their personalities. RichardSchickel's 1968 bookTheDisney Versionpoints outDisney's inspiration in providing his heroes and supporting characters withdifferent centers of gravity. A heroine like Snow White will stand upright andtall. But all of the comic characters will make movements centered on andemanating from their posteriors. Rump-butting is commonplace in Disney films,and characters often fall on their behinds and spin around. Schickel;attributed this to some kind of Disney anal fixation, but I think Disney did itbecause it works: It makes the comic characters rounder, lower, softer,bouncier and funnier, and the personalities of all seven Dwarfs are built fromthe seat up. Theanimals are also divided into body styles throughout Disney. “Real” animals(like Pluto) look more like dogs, comic animals (like Goofy) stand upright andare more bottom-loaded. In the same movie a mouse will be a rodent but Mickeywill somehow be other than a mouse; the stars transcend their species. In bothversions, non-star animals and other supporting characters provide counterpointand little parallel stories. Snow White doesn't simply climb up the stairs atthe dwarves' house--she's accompanied by a tumult of animals. And they don'tsimply follow her in one-dimensional movement. The chipmunks hurry so fast theyseem to climb over each other's backs, but the turtle takes it one laboriousstep at a time, and provides a punch line when he tumbles back down again. Advertisement Whatyou see in “Snow White” is a canvas always shimmering, palpitating, withmovement and invention. To this is linked the central story, which like allgood fairy tales is terrifying, involving the evil Queen, the sinister Mirroron the Wall, the poisoned apple, entombment in the glass casket, the lightningstorm, the rocky ledge, the Queen's fall to her death. What helps children dealwith this material is that the birds and animals are as timid as they are, scurryingaway and then returning for another curious look. The little creatures of “SnowWhite” are like a chorus that feels like the kids in the audience do. “SnowWhite and the Seven Dwarfs” was immediately hailed as a masterpiece. (TheRussian director Sergei Eisenstein called it the greatest movie ever made.) Itremains the jewel in Disney's crown, and although inflated modern grosses haveallowed other titles to pass it in dollar totals, it is likely that more peoplehave seen it than any other animated feature. The word genius is easily usedand has been cheapened, but when it is used to describe Walt Disney, reflectthat he conceived of this film, in all of its length, revolutionary style andinvention, when there was no other like it--and that to one degree or another,every animated feature made since owes it something.