Unhappiness is an invented thing.Sothe General tells his wife. He is convinced she wants to be unhappy. She placesherself willfully in the way of sadness. It is her choice. There was a timewhen Louisa would have agreed with him, when their views on society matchedperfectly. But now she is truly unhappy, and it is beyond her choice. TheGeneral will never understand that. Neither, probably, will her lover, theBaron. It is the gift these men have given her: The ability to mourn what shehas lost or never found. It is the one gift they cannot take back. Without it,she would have been unable to understand happiness. Certainly the men cannot. Advertisement “TheEarrings of Madame de...,” directed in 1953 byMax Ophuls, is one of the mostmannered and contrived love movies ever filmed. It glitters and dazzles, andbeneath the artifice it creates a heart, and breaks it. The film is famous forits elaborate camera movements, its graceful style, its sets, its costumes andof course its jewelry. It starsDanielle Darrieux,Charles Boyerand VittorioDe Sica, who effortlessly embody elegance. It could have been a manneredtrifle. We sit in admiration of Ophuls' visual display, so fluid and intricate.Then to our surprise we find ourselves caring. Thestory takes place in Vienna a century or so ago. The General (Boyer) hasmarried late, and well, to Louisa (Darrieux), a great beauty. He gives her expensivediamond earrings as a wedding present. As the film opens, Madame is desperatelyin debt, and rummaging among her possessions for something to sell. The camerafollows her in an unbroken shot as she looks through dresses, furs, jewelry,and finally settles on the earrings, which she never liked anyway. “What willyou tell your husband?” asks her servant. She will tell him that she lost them. Shetrusts the discretion of Remy the jeweler. She should not. Remy, who originallysold the earrings to the General, tells him the whole story. The General buysback the earrings as a farewell present to his mistress, who is leaving him andgoing to Constantinople. Certainly the wife will never see them again, andthere is poetic justice involved. Themistress sells the earrings to finance her gambling. The Baron Donati (De Sica)buys them. In his travels he encounters the Countess Louisa, falls in love,courts her, and gives her the earrings. She is startled to see them, butintuits how they came into the Baron's hands. How to explain their reappearanceto the General? In his presence, she goes through the motions of “finding”them. The General knows this is a falsehood, and the whole tissue of deceptionsunravels, even though the jewels are bought and sold two more times. (There isalways a laugh when the jeweler turns up in the General's office for “our usualtransaction”). Advertisement Standingback a little from the comings and goings of the earrings, which is the stuffof farce, the movie begins to look more closely at Louisa (whose husband's nameis never given, so that she is always vaguely the “Countess de...”). She andher husband live in a society where love affairs are more or less expected; “yoursuitors get on my nerves,” the General fusses as they leave a party. If they donot know specifically who their spouse is flirting with, they know generally.But there is a code in such affairs, and the code permits sex, but not love.The General confronts the Baron with his knowledge of the earrings. (“Constantinople?”“Yes.”) The General tells him, “It is incompatible with your dignity, and mine,for my wife to accept a gift of such value from you.” TheGeneral's instinct is sound. The Countess has indeed fallen in love. The Baronthought that he had, too. Their tragedy is that the intensity of her lovecarries her outside the rules, while the Baron remains safely in-bounds. Thescene where they fall in love shows Ophuls' mastery. He likes to show hischaracters surrounded by, even drowning in, their milieu. Interior spaces arecrowded with possessions. Their bodies are adorned with gowns, uniforms,jewelry, decorations. Ophuls likes to shoot past foreground objects, or throughwindows, to show the characters contained by possessions. But in the key lovescene, a montage involving several nights of dancing, the circling couple isgradually left all alone. TheBaron and the Countess are at a resort. On the dance floor, they observe it hasbeen three weeks since they danced together--two days--one day--and then theyare dancing still and no time has passed. The dialogue and costumes indicatethe time transitions, but the music plays without interruption, as do theirunbroken movements. They dance and dance, in love. An admiral's wife whispers: “They'reseen everywhere--because they can't meet anywhere.” On the last night, oneorchestra member after another packs up and goes home. A servant extinguishesthe candles. Finally a black dropcloth is thrown over the harp, and the cameramoves in until the screen is black and the dance is over. The economy ofstorytelling here--a courtship all told in a dance--resembles the famousmontage in “Citizen Kane” where a marriage dissolves in a series of breakfasts. Advertisement Thediscovery of a possession in the wrong place at the wrong time is an ancienttrick in fiction, from Desdemona's handkerchief to Henry James' Golden Bowl tothe brooch that should not be around Judy's neck in “Vertigo.” What isinteresting in “Madame de...” is the way the value of the earrings changes inrelationship to their meaning. At the start Madame Louisa wants only to sellthem. Then, when they are a gift from her lover, they become invaluable. TheGeneral wants to buy them back once, twice, but finally is reduced to tellingthe jeweler, “Stay away from me with those infernal earrings!” An expensivebauble, intended to symbolize love, becomes an annoyance and a danger when itfinallydoesrepresent it. ForLouisa, the earrings teach a lesson. She is no more morally to blame than herhusband or her lover, if only adultery is at stake. But if the General's honoris the question--if being gossiped about by the silly admiral's wife is theresult--then she is to blame. Certainly the Baron understands this, andwithdraws, his love suddenly upstaged by his regard for his own reputation. Thefinal meeting between the two men is brought about, curiously, by the General'sdiscovery that hedoeshave real feelings for his wife. MaxOphuls (1902-1957) was a German who made films in Germany, Hollywood andFrance. His career was used by the critic Andrew Sarris as a foundation-stoneof his auteur theory. Sarris famously advised moviegoers to value thehowof a movie more than thewhat. The story and message arenot as important, he said, as the style and art. In Ophuls, he had a good testcase, because Ophuls is seemingly the director most obsessed with surfaces, withthe visual look, with elaborate camera movements. He was dismissed by many asnothing more than a fancy stylist, and it took Sarris (and the Frenchauteurists) to show what a master he was. Advertisement Hisfilms are one of the great pleasures of the cinema. "Madame de..." isequaled by “La Ronde” (1950) and "Lola Montes" (1955) as movies whosesurfaces are a voluptuous pleasure to watch, regardless of whether you chooseto plunge into their depths. The long, impossibly complex opening shot of “LaRonde,” with the narrator introducing us to the story and even singing a littlesong, is one of the treasures of the movies. And who else has such romanticboldness that he will show Louisa writing her Baron day after day, with noletter back, and then have him tell her when they finally meet: “I alwaysanswered your letters, my love--but I lacked the courage to mail them.” Andthen to show his unmailed letters torn into bits and flung into the air tobecome snow.