John Ford's “The Searchers” contains scenes of magnificence, andone ofJohn Wayne's best performances. There are shots that are astonishinglybeautiful. A cover story inNewYorkmagazine called it themost influential movie in American history. And yet at its center is adifficult question, because the Wayne character is racist without apology--andso, in a less outspoken way, are the other white characters. Is the filmintended to endorse their attitudes, or to dramatize and regret them? Today wesee it through enlightened eyes, but in 1956 many audiences accepted its harshview of Indians. Advertisement The film is about an obsessive quest. The niece of Ethan Edwards(Wayne) is kidnapped by Comanches who murder her family and burn their ranchhouse. Ethan spends five years on a lonely quest to hunt down the tribe thatholds the girl Debbie (Natalie Wood)--not to rescue her, but to shoot her dead,because she has become “the leavin's of a Comanche buck.” Ford knew that hishero's hatred of Indians was wrong, but his glorification of Ethan's searchinvites admiration for a twisted man. Defenders of the film point to the famousscene where Ethan embraces his niece instead of killing her. Can one shotredeem a film? Ethan'squest inspired a plot line in George Lucas' “Star Wars.” It's at the center ofMartin Scorsese's “Taxi Driver,” written byPaul Schrader, who used it again inhis own “Hard Core.” The hero in each of the Schrader screenplays is a lonerdriven to violence and madness by his mission to rescue a young white woman whohas become the sexual prey of those seen as subhuman. Harry Dean Stanton'ssearch forNastassja Kinskiin Wim Wenders' “Paris, Texas” is a reworking ofthe Ford story. Even Ethan's famous line “That'll be the day” inspired a songby Buddy Holly. “TheSearchers” was made in the dying days of the classic Western, which falteredwhen Indians ceased to be typecast as savages. Revisionist Westerns, includingFord's own “Cheyenne Autumn” in 1964, took a more enlightened view of nativeAmericans, but the Western audience didn't want moral complexity; like theaudience for today's violent thrillers and urban warfare pictures, it wantedaction with clear-cut bad guys. Themovie was based on a novel by Alan LeMay and a script by Ford's son-in-lawFrank Nugent, the onetime film critic who wrote 10 Ford films, including “SheWore a Yellow Ribbon” and “Wagon Master.” It starred John Wayne, who workedwith “Pappy” Ford in 14 major films, as a Confederate soldier who boasts thathe never surrendered, who in postwar years becomes a wanderer, who arrives atthe ranch of his brother Aaron (Walter Coyt) and his wife Martha (Dorothy Jordan)under a cloud: He carries golden coins that may be stolen, and Sheriff SamClayton (Ward Bond) says he “fits a lot of descriptions.” Advertisement Itis clear from the way Ethan's eyes follow Martha around the room that hesecretly loves her. His hatred of Indians flares the moment he meets MartinPawley (Jeffrey Hunter): “Hell, I could mistake you for a half-breed.” Martinsays he's “one-eighth Comanche.” Ethan rescued young Martin when his family waskilled by Indians, and left him with Martha and Aaron to be raised, but it'sclear he thinks one-eighth is too much. When Martin insists on joining Ethan'ssearch for the captured Debbie, Ethan says “I give the orders” and treats theyounger man with contempt. In a saloon, Ethan pours out drinks but snatchesaway Martin's glass, snarling “Wait'll you grow up.” Martin at this point hasbeen a ranch hand, is engaged to be married, has been on the trail with Ethanfor years. Does Ethan privately think it's dangerous for a “half-breed” todrink? One of the mysteries of “The Searchers” involves the relationshipbetween Ethan and Martin on the trail. Living alone with each other for monthsat a time, sleeping under the stars, what did they talk about? How could theyshare a mission and not find common cause as men? Martin'sfunction on the trail is to argue for Debbie's life, since Ethan intends tofind her and kill her. The younger man also figures in a romantic subplotawkwardly cobbled on to the main story. He is engaged to marry Laurie (VeraMiles), the daughter of friendly Swedish neighbors. Ford goes for cornballhumor in scenes where Martin writes to Laurie only once in five years, and inthat letter makes light of having mistakenly purchased a “squaw bride.” Martinreturns on the very day when Laurie, who never expected to see him again, isscheduled to marry Charlie (Ken Curtis), a hayseed, and the men fight for thewomen in a sequence that would be more at home in “Seven Brides for SevenBrothers” than in an epic Western. “TheSearchers” indeed seems to be two films. The Ethan Edwards story is stark andlonely, a portrait of obsession, and in it we can see Schrader's inspirationfor Travis Bickle of “Taxi Driver;” the Comanche chief named Scar (HenryBrandon) is paralleled by Harvey Keitel's pimp named Sport, whose Western hatand long hair cause Travis to call him “chief.” Ethan doesn't like Indians, andsays so plainly. When he reveals his intention to kill Debbie, Martin says “She'salive and she's gonna stay alive!” and Ethan growls: “Livin' with Comanchesain't being alive.” He slaughters buffalo in a shooting frenzy, saying, “Atleast they won't feed any Comanche this winter.” The film within this filminvolves the silly romantic subplot and characters hauled in for comic relief,including the Swedish neighbor Lars Jorgensen (John Qualen), who uses avaudeville accent, and Mose Harper (Hank Worden), a half-wit treated like amascot. There are even musical interludes. This second strand is withoutinterest, and those who value “The Searchers” filter it out, patiently waitingfor a return to the main story line. Advertisement EthanEdwards, fierce, alone, a defeated soldier with no role in peacetime, is one ofthe most compelling characters Ford and Wayne ever created (they workedtogether on 14 films). Did they know how vile Ethan's attitudes were? I wouldargue that they did, because Wayne was in his personal life notably free ofracial prejudice, and because Ford made films with more sympathetic views ofIndians. This is not the instinctive, oblivious racism of Griffith's “Birth ofa Nation.” Countless Westerns have had racism as the unspoken premise; this oneconsciously focuses on it. I think it took a certain amount of courage to castWayne as a character whose heroism was tainted. Ethan's redemption is intendedto be shown in that dramatic shot of reunion with Debbie, where he takes her inhis broad hands, lifts her up to the sky, drops her down into his arms, andsays, “Let's go home, Debbie.” The shot is famous and beloved, but smallcounterbalance to his views throughout the film--and indeed, there is noindication be thinks any differently about Indians. JohnFord (1895-1973) was Hollywood's greatest chronicler of American history, andthere was a period when his “The Grapes of Wrath” (1940) and not “Citizen Kane”was cited as the best American film. He worked on his first film in 1914, andwas directing by 1917. He had an unrivaled eye for landscape, and famously usedMonument Valley as the location for his Westerns, camping out with cast andcrew, the company eating from a chuck wagon and sleeping in tents. Wayne toldme that making a Ford Western was like living in a Western. Ford'seye for composition was bold and sure. Consider the funeral early in the film,with a wagon at low right, a cluster of mourners in the middle left, then adiagonal up the hill to the grave, as they all sing Ford's favorite hymn, “ShallWe Gather at the River” (he used it again in the wedding scene). Consider oneof the most famous of all Ford shots, the search party in a valley as Indiansominously ride parallel to them, silhouetted against the sky. And the dramaticfirst sight of the adult Debbie, running down the side of a sand dune behindEthan, who doesn't see her. The opening and closing shots, of Ethan arrivingand leaving, framed in a doorway. The poignancy with which he stands alone atthe door, one hand on the opposite elbow, forgotten for a moment afterdelivering Debbie home. These shots are among the treasures of the cinema. Advertisement In“The Searchers” I think Ford was trying, imperfectly, even nervously, to depictracism that justified genocide; the comic relief may be an unconscious attemptto soften the message. Many members of the original audience probably missedhis purpose; Ethan's racism was invisible to them, because they bought into hisview of Indians. Eight years later, in “Cheyenne Autumn,” his last film, Fordwas more clear. But in the flawed vision of “The Searchers” we can see Ford,Wayne and the Western itself, awkwardly learning that a man who hates Indianscan no longer be an uncomplicated hero.