All discussions of Marcel Carne's Children of Paradise beginwith the miracle of its making. Named at Cannes as the greatest French film ofall time, costing more than any French film before it, Les Enfants du Paradiswas shot in Paris and Nice during the Nazi occupation and released in 1945. Itssets sometimes had to be moved between the two cities. Its designer andcomposer, Jews sought by the Nazis, worked from hiding. Carne was forced tohire pro-Nazi collaborators as extras; they did not suspect they were workingnext to resistance fighters. The Nazis banned all films over about 90 minutesin length, so Carne simply made two films, confident he could show themtogether after the war was over. The film opened in Paris right after theliberation, and ran for 54 weeks. It is said to play somewhere in Paris everyday. Advertisement That this film, wicked, worldly, flamboyant, set in Paris in1828, could have been imagined under those circumstances is astonishing. Thatthe production, with all of its costumes, carriages, theaters, mansions,crowded streets and rude rooming houses, could have been mounted at that timeseems logistically impossible (It is said, wrote Pauline Kael, that thestarving extras made away with some of the banquets before they could be photographed).Carne was the leading French director of the decade 1935-1945, but to make thisambitious costume film during wartime required more than clout; it requiredreckless courage. Despite the fame of Children of Paradise, most of the availableprints are worn and dim. It used to play every New Years' Day at Chicago'sbeloved Clark Theater, and that's where I first saw it, in 1967, but the 1991laserdisc was of disappointing quality, and videotapes even worse. Now the filmhas been released in sparkling clarity on a Criterion DVD that begins with arestored Pathe 35mm print and employs digital technology to make the blips,dirt and scratches disappear. It is likely the film has not looked better sinceits premiere. There are formidably informative commentary tracks by BrianStonehill and Charles Affron. The film's original trailer (on the disc) calls Children ofParadise the French answer to Gone With the Wind. In its scope and its heedlessheroine, there is a similarity, but the movie is not a historical epic but asophisticated, cynical portrait of actors, murderers, swindlers, pickpockets,prostitutes, impresarios and the decadent rich. Many of the characters arebased on real people, as is its milieu of nightclubs, dives and dens, theatershigh and low, and the hiding places of the unsavory. Advertisement Carne plunges us directly into this world with his famousopening shot on the Boulevard of Crime, which rivals the street of dying menscene in GWTW, reaching seemingly to infinity, alive with activity, jammed withcountless extras. This was a set designed by the great art director AlexanderTrauner, working secretly; the credits list his contribution as clandestine. Toforce the perspective and fool the eye, he used buildings that fell off rapidlyin height, and miniature carriages driven by dwarves. The street is a riot oflow-life. Mimes, jugglers, animal acts and dancers provide previews outsidetheir theaters, to lure crowds inside. One of the first attractions we see isadvertised as Truth. This is the elegant courtesan Garance, who revolves slowlyin a tub of water, regarding herself naked in a mirror. The water conceals herbody, so that she supplies truth, but only from the neck up. This is also whatshe supplies in life. Garance is played by Arletty (1898-1992), born as LeonieBathiat, who became a star in the 1930s and was, truth to tell, a little old toplay a sexual temptress who mesmerizes men. LikeMarlene Dietrich, to whom shewas often compared, Arletty's appeal was based not on fresh ripeness but on atantalizing sophistication. What fascinates men is that she has seen it all,done it all, admits it, takes their measure, and yet flatters them that sheadores them. Even cutthroats fall under her spell; when the criminal Lacenairetells her I'd spill torrents of blood to give you rivers of diamonds she lookshim in the eye and replies, I'd settle for less. Around Garance circle many of the movie's most importantcharacters. The mime Baptiste (Jean-Louis Barrault) sees her from her stage,defends her in pantomime against a pickpocket charge, is rewarded by a rose,and falls for her. So does Frederick Lemaitre (Pierre Brasseur), as an actorwho dreams of doing something good--perhaps Shakespeare. And Lacenaire (MarcelHerrand), who with his ruffled shirt, curly hair, villain's mustache and coldspeech is the Rhett Butler of the piece. And the Count Edouard de Montray(Louis Salou), who thinks he has brought her but discovers he was only renting. Advertisement It is possible that Garance truly loves the innocent Baptiste,who triumphs in a bar brawl and brings her home to his rude rooming house,where he rents her a room of her own and retires separately for the night. ButFrederick, who lives in the rooming house, has no such scruples--and, for thatmatter, Baptiste is no saint. He marries the theater manager's daughter, sires anabominable offspring, in the words of Pauline Kael, and cheats on his wife bystill loving Garance. Lacenaire, who strides through the underworld like aking, basking in his reputation for ruthlessness, thinks he can have Garancefor the asking (you are the only woman for whom I do not have contempt), but itis the Count whose money makes her his mistress. When Lacenaire pulls back adrapery so that the Count can see Garance in the arms of Frederick, so many menthink they have the right to her that the actor observes, Jealousy belongs toall if a woman belongs to none. Most of the movie is frankly shot on sets, including exteriors.A misty dawn scene involving a duel provides a rare excursion outside Paris. Hehad an eye for the sad romance of fog-laden streets and squalid lodging houses,David Thomson writes. His characters live artificially in the demimonde, actorswho are always on stage; if we meet a street beggar, like the blind man Fil deSoie (Gaston Modot), we are not much surprised to find he can see well enoughindoors. Carne's screenplay was by his usual collaborator JacquesPrevert; they not only set their story in a theatrical world but divert fromthe action to show the actors at work. Kael counts five kinds of theatricalperformances, and they would include Baptiste's miming and a scene from Othellothat provides oblique reflections on the plot. It is Baptiste whose art leavesthe greatest impression. Jean-Louis Barrault (1910-1994), then a star at theComedie Francais, is first seen in clown makeup, glumly surveying the Boulevardof Crime, brought to life only by his mimed defense of Garance. Later, hestages his own extended mime performance--only to see, from the stage, Garanceflirting in the wings. No one's trust is repaid in this movie. If Carne was France's leading director, Prevert was the leadingscreenwriter, at a time when writers were given equal billing with directors.They both continued to work for decades--Prevert into the 1960s, Carne into the1980s--but never surpassed Children of Paradise. Indeed, it was precisely thiskind of well-mounted, witty film that was attacked by the young French criticsof the 1950s who later became known as the New Wave. They wanted a rougher,more direct, more improvisational feel--theater not on a stage but in yourface. Advertisement If the Cannes festival were to attempt again today to choose thebest French film ever made, would Children of Paradise win? Perhaps. Perhapsnot. Just as American audiences prefer Gone With the Wind or Casablanca whilethe critics always choose Citizen Kane, at Cannes the palm might go to Godardor Truffaut, or Jean Vigo's L'Atalante. But Children of Paradise, now finallyavailable in a high-quality print and ready to win new admirers, might have achance. Few achievements in the world of cinema can equal it.