I've seenOtto Preminger's “Laura” three or four times, but theidentity of the murderer doesn't spring quickly to mind. That's not because theguilty person is forgettable but because the identity is so arbitrary: It isnotnecessarythat the murderer be the murderer.Three or four other characters would have done as well, and indeed if it werenot for Walter Winchell we would have another ending altogether. More aboutthat later. Film noir is known for its convoluted plots and arbitrarytwists, but even in a genre that gave us “The Maltese Falcon,” this takes somekind of prize. “Laura” (1944) has a detective who never goes to the station; asuspect who is invited to tag along as other suspects are interrogated; aheroine who is dead for most of the film; a man insanely jealous of a womaneven though he never for a moment seems heterosexual; a romantic lead who is adull-witted Kentucky bumpkin moving in Manhattan penthouse society, and amurder weapon that isreturnedto its hiding place by the cop,who will “come by for it in the morning.” The only nude scene involves thejealous man and the cop. Advertisement That“Laura” continues to weave a spell -- and it does -- is a tribute to style oversanity. No doubt the famous musical theme by David Raksin has something to dowith it: The music lends a haunted, nostalgic, regretful cast to everything itplays under, and it plays under a lot. There is also Clifton Webb's narration,measured, precise, a little mad: “I shall never forget the weekend Laura died.A silver sun burned through the sky like a huge magnifying glass. It was thehottest Sunday in my recollection. I felt as if I were the only human beingleft in New York. For Laura's horrible death, I was alone. I, Waldo Lydecker,was the only one who really knew her.” Itis Clifton Webb's performance as Waldo Lydecker that stands at the heart of thefilm, withVincent Price, as Laura's fiancee Shelby Carpenter, nibbling at theedges like an eager spaniel. Both actors, and Judith Anderson as a neuroticfriend, create characters who have no reality except their own, which is goodenough for them. The hero and heroine, on the other hand, are cardboard. GeneTierney, as Laura, is gorgeous, has perfect features, looks great in thestills, but never seems emotionally involved; her work in “Leave Her to Heaven”(1945) is stronger, deeper, more convincing. Dana Andrews, as Detective MarkMcPherson, stands straight, chain-smokes, speaks in a monotone, and remindedthe studio head Daryl F. Zanuck of “an agreeable schoolboy.” As actors, Tierneyand Andrews basically play eyewitnesses to scene-stealing by Webb and Price. Thiswas Clifton Webb's first big starring role and his first movie role of any kindsince 1930. He was a stage actor who refused the studio's demand for a screentest; Otto Preminger, who began by producing the film and ended by directingit, in desperation filmed Webb on a Broadway stage and showed that to Zanuck. “Hedoesn't walk, he flies,” an underling told Zanuck, but Webb, who had a manneredcamp style, impressed Zanuck and got the role. Vincent Price creates an accentsomewhere between Kentucky and Transylvania for his character, who is tall andhealthy and inspires Waldo Lydecker to complain to Laura: “With you, a leanstrong body is the measure of a man.” Advertisement Lydeckeris lean but not strong. Webb was 55 when he played the role, Tierney 24. Asimilar age difference was no problem for Bogart and Bacall, but between Webband Tierney it must be said there is not the slightest suggestion of chemistry.He is a bachelor critic and columnist (said to be modeled after AlexanderWolcott), and the first time we see him he is sitting in his bathtub, typing.This is after Laura's body has been found murdered with shotgun blasts, and thedetective comes to question her closest friend. Thescene develops with more undercurrents than surface, as McPherson enters thebathroom, glances at Lydecker, seems faintly amused. Then Lydecker swings thetypewriter shelf away, so that it shields his nudity from the camera but notfrom the detective. Waldo stands up, off screen, and a reaction shot showsMcPherson glancing down as Lydecker asks him to pass a bathrobe. Every time Isee the movie, I wonder what Preminger is trying to accomplish with this scene.There is no suggestion that Lydecker is attracted to McPherson, and yet itseems odd to greet a police detective in the nude. Lydeckeris Laura's svengali. In flashbacks, we follow the progress of theirrelationship. He snubs her in the Algonquin dining room, then apologizes,becomes her friend, and takes over her life, chooses her clothes, redoes herhair, introduces her to the right people, promotes her in his column. Theyspend every night together out on the town, except Tuesdays and Fridays, whenWaldo cooks for her at home. Then other men enter the picture, and leave againas Waldo blasts them in his column. Big, dumb Shelby with his lean, strong bodyis the latest and most serious threat. Considering this Waldo-Shelby-Laura lovetriangle, it occurs to me that the only way to make it psychologically soundwould be to change Laura into a boy. Advertisement Themovie basically consists of well-dressed rich people standing in luxury flatsand talking to a cop. The passion is unevenly distributed. Shelby and Lauranever seem to have much heat between them. Waldo is possessive of Laura, butnever touches her. Ann Treadwell (Anderson), a society dame, lusts for Shelbybut has to tell him or he'd never know. And Detective McPherson develops acrush on the dead woman. There is an extraordinary scene where he enters herapartment at night, looks through her letters, touches her dresses, sniffs herperfume, pours himself a drink from her bottle and sits down beneath herenormous portrait, which is placed immodestly above her own fireplace. It'slike a date with a ghost. McPherson'sinvestigation and his ultimate revelations are handled in an offhand way, for a1940s crime picture. He is forever leading people to believe they're going tobe charged, and then backing off. Lydecker asks to tag along as the copinterviews suspects; murder is his “favorite crime,” and “I like to study theirreactions.” Astonishingly, McPherson lets him. This is useful from a screenplaypoint of view, since otherwise McPherson would be mostly alone. Allof these absurdities and improbabilities somehow do not diminish the film'sappeal. They may even add to it. Some of the lines have become unintentionallyfunny, James Naremore writes inMorethan Night: Film Noir in its Contexts,”Where'Laura' is concerned, the camp effect is at least partly intended--any movie thatputs Clifton Webb, Judith Anderson and Vincent Price in the same drawing roomis inviting a mood of fey theatricality.” Thestory of Preminger's struggle to get the movie made has become Hollywoodlegend. As he tells it in his autobiography, Zanuck saw him as a producer, nota director, and assigned Rouben Mamoulian to the piece. When the early rusheswere a disaster, Preminger stepped in, reshot many scenes, replaced the sets,and fought for the screenplay. Zanuck insisted that another ending be shot; thefilm was screened for Zanuck and his pal Walter Winchell, a real gossipcolumnist, who said he didn't understand the ending. So Zanuck let Premingerhave his ending back, and while the business involving the shotgun in theantique clock may be somewhat labored, the whole film is of a piece: contrived,artificial, mannered, and yet achieving a kind of perfection in its balancebetween low motives and high style. What makes the movie great, perhaps, is thecasting. The materials of a B-grade crime potboiler are redeemed by WaldoLydecker, walking through every scene as if afraid to step in something. Advertisement