The great hall in Jean Epstein's "The Fall of the House ofUsher" is one of the most haunting spaces in the movies. Its floor is avast marble expanse, interrupted here and there by an item of furniture thatseems dwarfed by the surrounding emptiness. An odd staircase rises from onedistant corner. It is not impossible that this vision, in one of the best-knownFrench surrealist films, inspired the designers of the great hall of Xanadu in"Citizen Kane." In both films, shadows are made to substitute fordetails that are not really there, and a man and a woman, their lives ruled byhis obsession with her, move like wraiths through the haunted space. Advertisement Thehall is not simply cold, enormous and forbidding, but has surrealistic details."Leaves blow ominously across the floor," writes the critic GaryMorris, and the long white curtains "flutter menacingly, as if the houseis under constant, quiet, insidious siege by a vengeful nature." This isnot a room for human habitation, but a set for a surrealist opera. Theoccupants of the house are Roderick Usher and his young wife, Madeline. In theoriginal story by Edgar Allen Poe, they were brother and sister, but theimplication of incest has been removed by Epstein, who explains with a titlecard that the men of the house of Usher have all been obsessed with paintingtheir wives. Roderick is consumed with fear that his wife will die, and no lessfearful that she will be buried alive. Does he hope that his portrait willtransfer her essence to a form that will live forever? Tothe house an unnamed friend is summoned. There are echoes of the Dracula filmsand of the silent classic "Nosferatu" (1922) in the way the localsrefuse to convey the visitor to the house, even though poor Roderick Usher ismerely demented, not vampirish. The friend's arrival is curiously staged, withRoderick standing at the top of a flight of steps and leaning far forward toextend his hand to the other man, but apparently not daring to take even oneactual step down to approach him. An umbilical cord seems to tie him to theinterior. Theexterior of the house, seen in the midst of the obligatory blasted heath, isobviously a drawn miniature, and critics point out the unconvincing stars inthe sky, proudly fake. This kind of obvious artifice, which hardly evenattempts to fool the eye, owes something to the German expressionist traditionin films like "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari." Although the interior ofthe house looks more real, or at least more physically present, its nightmaredetails and vistas are also less concerned with realism than with effect. Advertisement Epstein'sassistant director on the film was youngLuis Bunuel, who had just finished hisnotorious collaboration with Salvador Dali on "Un Chein Andalou," aboldly surrealist film. Did he contribute to this film's weirdness? No doubt,although Epstein was a surrealist himself and the underlying story itself isless interested in psychological plausibility than in the creepiness andoddness of its immediate impression. (Bunuel eventually quit after a quarrelwith Epstein.) Roderickis played by Jean Debucourt, more convincing than many silent stars, who goesless for the demented madman effect and more for the aura of a man consumed byhis fears. Madeline is played by Marguerite Gance, wife of the French directorAbel Gance("Napoleon"). Her task is to be an object. All attentionand animation is concentrated in the two men, while Madeline poses for herpainting and slowly sinks toward the grave. The visitor and narrator is CharlesLamy. Thereis an amusing ambiguity about the painting, which we see at regular intervalsthroughout the film. In some shots it is a real canvas, which Roderick daubsat. In others it is the real Marguerite Gance standing within the frame andpretending to the camera she is the painting. "In a motif lifted fromWilde's 'Picture of Dorian Gray,' " writes the critic Mark Zimmer,"her life and vitality pours into the painting, such that it begins toblink and move, as she dies." Perhaps, but not according to the criticGlenn Erickson, who writes, "Roderick's portraits are represented byhaving Madeline sit very still behind the frame and pretend to be a paintedimage. Unfortunately, she blinks in almost every take, ruining theillusion." Bothcritics are seeing exactly the same thing. Which critic is correct? Thesurrealists would have been delighted by the confusion. JeanEpstein (1897-1953), born in Poland, studied medicine before falling into theParisian orbit of the surrealists in the 1920s. He directed films throughoutthe 1920s, finding as others did that silent films gave themselves naturally tofantasy and impressionism; the talkies would discover that dialogue tended totilt stories toward realism. "The Fall of the House of Usher," madein 1928, the last great year of silent films, was based on a Poe story that ismore atmosphere than plot, anyway. There have been many versions of"Usher," from another 1928 silent film through to Roger Corman'sexcellent 1960 version withVincent Price. Epstein seems to focus less on themechanics of the situation than on its very oddness: The man and woman bothtrapped by his mad obsession with death, the woman almost helpfully fadingaway. Advertisement Iwas struck, watching the film recently on a new DVD, by how completely itengaged me. Some silent films hold you outside: You admire them, but are awareof them as a phenomenon. With "The Fall of the House of Usher," Ibarely stirred during the film's 66-minute running time. A tone, an atmosphere,was created that actually worked. As with "Nosferatu," the filmseemed less a fiction than the realization of some phantasmagoric alternativereality. Epstein's openness to the grand gesture is helpful, as when Madelineis in her coffin, and her white bridal veil spills outside and blows in thewind. Twomodern additions to the film also enhance it. Instead of replacing the originalFrench titles and their boldly stylized calligraphy, this version uses thevoice of actorJean-Pierre Aumontto read them in English. The effect is thatthe titles are as real as the film, and Aumont is standing outside of it, nextto us, confiding the horror they contain. Theother addition is the score from 1960 by Rolande de Cande. Based on medievalmusic, composed for woodwinds and strings, it is an extraordinary piece ofwork. It feels as if it emerges from the images themselves, odd, sad andvaguely liturgical. Charactersin horror films tend to pose. They are presented not in terms of complex humannature, but within the narrow definition of their obsession, or weakness, orlimitation. Stories often involve an outside visitor whose function is toprovide an audience and, later, a report. The story of Roderick and Madelinewould be less dramatic if there was no one there to witness it and provide thereaction of a normal person. Yet more than many horror characters, Roderick andMadeline seem complete in their drama, as if they do not need the observer.Roderick thinks only of death, decay and the Poe's beloved dread of beingburied alive. And Madeline--well, why did she marry him? What was theircourtship like? Has it ever occurred to her to simply walk away? One does notask such practical questions about a horror film, I know, but Marguerite Gancesucceeds in suggesting that Madeline has fallen under the spell, whetherwillingly or not, and is also caught up in the obsession. Advertisement Thereare times when I think that of all the genres, the horror film most missessilence. The Western benefited from dialogue, and musicals and film noir areunthinkable without words. But in a classic horror film, almost anything youcan say will be superfluous or ridiculous. Notice how carefully the Draculas oftalkies have to choose their words to avoid bad laughs. The perfect horror situationis such that there is nothing you can say about it. What words are necessary in"The Pit and the Pendulum"? "The Fall of the House ofUsher" resides within its sealed world, as if--yes, as if buried alive.