John Ford's "The Grapes of Wrath" is a left-wingparable, directed by a right-wing American director, about how a sharecropper'sson, a barroom brawler, is converted into a union organizer. The message isboldly displayed, but told with characters of such sympathy and images of suchbeauty that audiences leave the theater feeling more pity than anger orresolve. It's a message movie, but not a recruiting poster. The ideological journey of the hero, Tom Joad, can be seen bythe two killings he is responsible for. The first one takes place in a saloonbefore the action begins, and Tom describes it to a former preacher: "Wewas drunk. He got a knife in me and I laid him out with a shovel. Knocked hishead plum to squash." After serving four years, Tom is paroled and returnsto his family farm in Oklahoma, only to learn the Joads have been"tractored off the land" and are joining the desperate migration toCalifornia. Near the end of the film, after seeing deputies and thugs beat andshoot at strikers, he is once again attacked, this time by a "tinbadge" with a club. He snatches away the club, and kills him. The lessonis clear: Tom has learned who his real enemies are, and is working now with moredeserving targets. Advertisement Themovie was based on John Steinbeck's novel, arguably the most effective socialdocument of the 1930s, and it was directed by a filmmaker who had done morethan any other to document the Westward movement of American settlement. JohnFord was the director of "The Iron Horse" (1924), about the dream ofa railroad to the West, and made many other films about the white migrationinto Indian lands, including his Cavalry trilogy ("Fort Apache,""She Wore a Yellow Ribbon," "Rio Grande"). "The Grapesof Wrath" tells the sad end of the dream. The small shareholders whostaked their claims 50 years earlier are forced off their land by bankers andbig landholders. "Who's the Shawnee Land and Cattle Company?" asksMuley, a neighbor of the Joads who refuses to sell. "It ain'tanybody," says a land agent. "It's a company." Themovie finds a larger socialist lesson in this, when Tom tells Ma: "One guywith a million acres and a hundred thousand farmers starvin'." Of courseTom didn't know the end of the story, about how the Okies would go to work inwar industries and their children would prosper more in California than theywould have in Oklahoma, and their grandchildren would star in Beach Boys songs.It is easy to forget that for many, "The Grapes of Wrath" had ahappy, unwritten, fourth act. WhenSteinbeck published his novel in 1939, it was acclaimed as a masterpiece, wonthe Pulitzer Prize, was snatched up by Darryl F. Zanuck of 20th Century-Fox andassigned to his top director, John Ford. It expressed the nation's rage aboutthe Depression in poetic, Biblical terms, and its dialogue does a delicatelittle dance around words like "agitators" and "Reds"--whoare, we are intended to understand, what the fat cats call anyone who stands upfor the little man. With Hitler rising in Europe, Communism would enjoy a briefrespite from the American demonology. Themovie won Oscars for best director and best actress (Jane Darwell as Ma Joad)and was nominated for five others, including best actor (Henry Fonda) and bestpicture (it lost to Hitchcock's "Rebecca"). In a year when there were10 best film nominees Ford had even another entry, "The Long VoyageHome." "The Grapes of Wrath" was often named the greatestAmerican film, until it was dethroned by the re-release of "CitizenKane" in 1958, and in the recent American Film Institute poll it finishedin the top 10. But do many people watch it anymore? It's not even on DVD. Advertisement Whenthe DVD restoration does finally arrive, viewers will discover a film that usesrealistic black-and-white cinematography to temper its sentiment and provide adocumentary quality to scenes like the entry into the Okie transient camp nearthe California border. Even though the Joad farm is a studio set, Ford liked toshoot on location, and records a journey down Route 66 from the Dust Bowlthrough New Mexico and Arizona, past shabby gas stations and roadside diners.The dialogue sometimes grows a little too preachy to fit within the simplevernacular of farmers, and Tom Joad's famous farewell to Ma ("Whereverthere's a fight so hungry people can eat, I'll be there. Wherever there's a copbeatin' up a guy, I'll be there ...") always sounds to me like writing,not spontaneous expression. Butit is dialogue spoken by Henry Fonda, whose Tom Joad is one of the greatAmerican movie characters, so pure and simple and simplytherein the role that he puts it over.Fonda was an actor with the rare ability to exist on the screen without seemingto reach or try, and he makes it clear even in his silences how he has beenpondering Preacher's conversion from religion to union politics. We're notsurprised when he tells Ma, "Maybe it's like Casy says. A fella ain't gota soul of his own, just a little piece of a big soul. The one big soul thatbelongs to everybody." Just as, in the dream of One Big Union,transcendentalism meets Marxism. Thephotography is by the great innovatorGregg Toland, who also shot "TheLong Voyage Home" and after those two Ford pictures and William Wyler's"The Westerner" moved on directly to his masterpiece, Orson Welles'"Citizen Kane." In "Voyage" he experimented with thedeep-focus photography that would be crucial to "Kane." In"Grapes" he worked with astonishingly low levels of light; considerthe many night scenes and the shots in the deserted Joad homestead, where Tomand the preacher seem illuminated by a single candle, Tom silhouetted, Casyside-lit. Advertisement Thepower of Ford (1884-1973) was rooted in strong stories, classical technique anddirect expression. Years of apprenticeship in low-budget silent films, many ofthem quickies shot on location, had steeled him against unnecessary set-ups andfancy camera work. There is a rigorous purity in his visual style that servesthe subject well. "The Grapes of Wrath" contains not a single shotthat seems careless or routine. Fondaand Jane Darwell are the actors everyone remembers, although John Carradine'sCasy is also instrumental. Darwell worked in the movies for 50 years, nevermore memorably than here, where she has the final word ("We'll go onforever, Pa. 'Cause ... we're the people!"). The novel of course ends witha famous scene that stunned its readers, as Rose of Sharon, having lost herbaby, offers her milk-filled breast to a starving man in a railroad car.Hollywood, which stretched itself in allowingClark Gableto say"damn" a year earlier in "Gone With the Wind," was notready for that scene, even by implication, in 1940. Since the originalaudiences would have known it was left out, the film ended with safe sentimentinstead of Steinbeck's bold melodramatic masterstroke. Iwonder if American audiences will ever again be able to understand the originalimpact of this material, on the page and on the screen. The centenary ofSteinbeck's birth is now being observed with articles sniffing that he was not,after all, all that good, that his Nobel was undeserved, that he was of histime and has dated. But one would not want "The Grapes of Wrath"written differently; irony, stylistic experimentation and "modernism"would weaken it. Thenovel and movie do last, I think, because they are founded in real experienceand feeling. My parents were scarred by the Depression, it was a remembereddevastation I sensed in their very tones of voice, and "The Grapes ofWrath" shows half a nation with the economic rug pulled out from under it.The story, which seems to be about the resiliency and courage of "thepeople," is built on a foundation of fear: Fear of losing jobs, land,self-respect. To those who had felt that fear, who had gone hungry or beenhomeless, it would never become dated. And its sense of injustice, I believe,is still relevant. The banks and land agents of the 1930s have been replaced byfinancial pyramids so huge and so chummy with the government that Enron, forexample, had to tractor itself off its own land.