Umberto is upright, neat, exact, and the cut of his clothesshows that he was once respectable. Now he is a retired civil servant on afixed income that is not enough to support him, not even in his simplefurnished room, not even if he skips meals. He and his dog are faced witheviction by a greedy landlady who would rather rent his room by the afternoonto shame-faced couples. VittorioDe Sica's "Umberto D" (1952) is the story of the old man's struggleto keep from falling from poverty into shame. It may be the best of the Italianneorealist films--the one that is most simply itself, and does not reach forits effects or strain to make its message clear. Even its scenes involvingUmberto's little dog are told without the sentimentality that pets often bringinto stories. Umberto loves the dog and the dog loves him because that is thenature of the bond between dogs and men, and both try to live up to their sideof the contract. Advertisement Thefilm is told without false drama. Even when Umberto calls the ambulance and hashimself taken to the hospital, there is no false crisis, no manufactured fearthat he will die. Later, when Umberto considers suicide, he goes about it insuch a calm and logical way that we follow his reasoning and weigh thealternatives along with him, instead of being manipulated into dread."Umberto D" avoids all temptations to turn its hero into one of thoselovable Hollywood oldsters played by Matthau or Lemmon. Umberto DomenicoFerrari is not the life of any party but a man who wants to be left alone toget on with his business. In his shoes we might hope to behave as he does, withbravery and resourcefulness. Themovie follows its hero as he faces the possibility that he may lose his roomand be turned into the streets to beg. He has always paid his bills and thisprospect horrifies him. The opening shot shows him joining a streetdemonstration in Rome, as old men seek an increase in their meager statepensions. Umberto marches in the protest, but is not a joiner, and indeed whenthe police disperse the crowd he is angry not at the cops, but at theorganizers: "They didn't even get a permit!" He smuggles his littledog Flag into a dining hall where the old are given free lunches, and slips hisfood under the table for the dog, while tricking the stern welfare workers withsome quick plate-switching. He tries to sell his watch, but everyone has awatch they want to sell. Wegradually learn the outlines of his life. He lives in a room infested withants, which the landlady will do nothing about. Adulterous couples leave hisroom just as he is returning to it. His friend in the rooming house is Mariathe maid, who is pregnant. She isn't sure if the father is the boy fromFlorence, or the one from Naples. Umberto is not offended that she sleeps withmore than one man. He is beyond being surprised by the trouble sex can bring,cares about her as she cares about him, because they are both good people in abad place. Advertisement Becausehis dog has needs, Umberto has needs. He must care for Flag. He is truthfullysick when he arranges to go to the hospital, but not that sick, and the trip ismostly to get a few days of clean sheets and good meals. He arranges for themaid to take care of the dog while he's gone, and even stages a pantomime witha stick and a ball to distract the dog from following him. Laterhe finds that the dog ran out the apartment door, maybe to look for him, and islost. There is a scene of documentary simplicity, in which Umberto seeks Flagat the dog pound, and learns how unwanted dogs are put to death. He peershelplessly into a cage so filled with barking, scrambling dogs that he cannotsee for sure if Flag is even there. When he finds the dog, note how De Sicashows them greeting one another. This whole passage is all the more affectingbecause the movie doesn't milk it for tears, but simply shows it happening. Neorealismwas an Italian movement, born in wartime, continuing through the 1950s, whichbelieved that films should be made close to the surface of everyday life andplayed by non-professionals who embodied their characters. "UmbertoD" is one of the most successful demonstrations of that theory. The oldman is played by Carlo Battisti, then 70, a university lecturer who had notacted before. DeSica (1901-1974) said his method was to form a mental image of a characterwhile working on the screenplay with his longtime collaborator CesareZavattini. "Until I can find the man, woman or child who fits the figure Isee in my mind's eye," he wrote, "I do not begin." With"Umberto D," "before fortune smiled on me once again, I hadsearched Rome, Naples, and other cities and had lingered for hours, for dayseven, in those places where I was most likely to find the kind of old-agepensioner who was the hero of my film...but I had not yet mettheperson who from the first had smiledat me with sorrowful dignity from the pages of the script." Sorrowfuldignity is exactly what Battisti embodies for Umberto. He is observant,understanding, sympathetic. He doesn't rail against the injustice of the world,but is simply determined to defend the corner he occupies with his dog. BecauseUmberto doesn't talk much with other characters, we have to determine histhoughts by how he looks and what he does, and there is a masterful scene inwhich he considers begging in the street, and decides against it. Note thetiming of this sequence. With a slightly different twist, it could shot-by-shotbe a comic bit for Chaplin's Little Tramp, but De Sica holds it to understatedpathos. Umberto watches a successful beggar. He puts out his own palm, halfway,not really committing himself. As a man is about to give him money, he turnsthe hand over, as if testing for rain. He cannot beg. He thinks. He gives hishat to his dog, which sits up and holds it in its mouth, while Umberto hidesnearby. No, this will not work either: He will not demean his dog by making itdo something he would not do. Advertisement Thestages by which Umberto arrives at the idea of suicide and then is drawn awayfrom it are among the best in the film. His dog is central to the action--bothbecause he will not abandon it by his own death, and because the dog refuses toleave his side. It is the fact of the dog's love that saves him, because hecannot ignore it. One great scene takes place when Umberto takes the dog to acouple that boards unwanted dogs. It's clear they're in it only for the money,and that many of their pets don't have long to live. Umberto offers them moneyto take Flag, but their eyes tell him it is not enough to support the dog forlong. Leaving, he hides under a bridge, but the dog finds him, and again we'rereminded of a sequence that could be in a Chaplin film, but has been toned downto quiet sadness. "UmbertoD" tells what could be a formula story, but not in a formula way: Itsmoments seem generated by what might really happen. A formula film would find away to manufacture a happy ending, but good fortune will not fall from the skyfor Umberto. Perhaps his best luck is simply that he has the inner strength toendure misfortune without losing self-respect. It is said that at one level oranother, Chaplin's characters were always asking that we love them. Umbertodoesn't care if we love him or not. That is why we love him.