Shortly before filming was to begin on "Rashomon,"Akira Kurosawa's three assistant directors came to see him. They were unhappy.They didn't understand the story. "If you read it diligently," hetold them, "you should be able to understand it, because it was writtenwith the intention of being comprehensible." They would not leave: "Webelieve we have read it carefully, and we still don't understand it atall." Recallingthis day inSomething Like an Autobiography,Kurosawa explains the movieto them. The explanation is reprinted in the booklet that comes with the newCriterion DVD of "Rashomon." Two of the assistants are satisfied withhis explanation, but the third leaves looking puzzled. What he doesn'tunderstand is that while there is anexplanationof the film's foureyewitness accounts of a murder, there is not asolution.Advertisement Kurosawais correct that the screenplay is comprehensible as exactly what it is: Fourtestimonies that do not match. It is human nature to listen to witnesses anddecide who is telling the truth, but the first words of the screenplay, spokenby the woodcutter, are "I just don't understand." His problem is thathe has heard the same events described by all three participants in threedifferent ways--and all three claim to be the killer. "Rashomon"(1950) struck the world of film like a thunderbolt. Directed by Kurosawa in theearly years of his career, before he was hailed as a grandmaster, it was madereluctantly by a minor Japanese studio, and the studio head so disliked it thathe removed his name from the credits. Then it won the Golden Lion at the VeniceFilm Festival, effectively opening the world of Japanese cinema to the West. Itwon the Academy Award as best foreign film. It set box office records for asubtitled film. Its very title has entered the English language, because, like"Catch-22," it expresses something for which there is no bettersubstitute.Ina sense, "Rashomon" is a victim of its success, as Stuart GalbraithIV writes inThe Emperor and the Wolf,his comprehensive new study ofthe lives and films of Kurosawa and his favorite actor,     Toshiro Mifune    . When itwas released, he observes, nobody had ever seen anything like it. It was thefirst use of flashbacks that disagreed about the action they were flashing backto. It supplied first-person eyewitness accounts that differed radically--oneof them coming from beyond the grave. It ended with three self-confessedkillers and no solution.Since1950 the story device of "Rashomon" has been borrowed repeatedly;Galbraith cites "Courage Under Fire," and certainly "The UsualSuspects" was also influenced, in the way it shows us flashbacks that donot agree with any objective reality. Because weseethe events inflashbacks, we assume they reflect truth. But all they reflect is a point ofview, sometimes lied about. Smart films know this, less ambitious films do not.Many films that use a flashback only to fill in information are lazy. Advertisement Thegenius of "Rashomon" is that all of the flashbacks are both true andfalse. True, in that they present an accurate portrait of what each witnessthinks happened. False, because as Kurosawa observes in his autobiography,"Human beings are unable to be honest with themselves about themselves.They cannot talk about themselves without embellishing." Thewonder of "Rashomon" is that while the shadowplay of truth and memoryis going on, we are absorbed by what we trust is an unfolding story. The film'sengine is our faith that we'll get to the bottom of things--even though thewoodcutter tells us at the outset he doesn't understand, and if an eyewitnesswho has heard the testimony of the other three participants doesn't understand,why should we expect to? Thefilm opens in torrential rain, and five shots move from long shot to closeup toreveal two men sitting in the shelter of Kyoto's Rashomon Gate. The rain willbe a useful device, unmistakably setting apart the present from the past. Thetwo men are a priest and a woodcutter, and when a commoner runs in out of therain and engages them in conversation, he learns that a samurai has beenmurdered and his wife raped and a local bandit is suspected. In the course oftelling the commoner what they know, the woodcutter and the priest willintroduce flashbacks in which the bandit, the wife and the woodcutter say whatthey saw, or think they saw--and then a medium turns up to channel the ghost ofthe dead samurai. Although the stories are in radical disagreement, it isunlike any of the original participants are lying for their own advantage,since each claims to be the murderer. Kurosawa'sscreenplay is only the ground which the film travels, however. The real gift of"Rashomon" is in its emotions and visuals. The cinematographer KazuoMiyagawa evokes the heat, light and shade of a semi-tropical forest. (Slugsdropped from trees onto the cast and crew, Kurosawa recalled, and theyslathered themselves with salt to repel them.) Thewoodcutter's opening journey into the woods is famous as a silent sequencewhich suggests he is traveling into another realm of reality. Miyagawa shootsdirectly into the sun (then a taboo) and there are shots where thesharply-contrasted shadows of overhead leaves cast a web upon the characters,making them half-disappear into the ground beneath. Advertisement Inone long sustained struggle between the bandit (Mifune) and the samurai(Masayuki Mori), their exhaustion, fear and shortness of breath becomespalpable. In a sequence where the woman (Machiko Kyo) taunts both men, there isa silence in which thoughts form that will decide life or death. Perhaps theemotions evolved in that forest clearing are so strong and fearful that theycannotbe translated into rational explanation. Thefirst time I saw the film, I knew hardly a thing about Japanese cinema, andwhat struck me was the elevated emotional level of the actors. Do all Japaneseshout and posture so? Having now seen a great many Japanese films, I know thatin most of them the Japanese talk in more or less the same way we do (Ozu'sfilms are a model of conversational realism). But Kurosawa was not looking forrealism. From his autobiography, we learn he was struck by the honesty ofemotion in silent films, where dialog could not carry the weight and actorsused their faces, eyes and gestures to express emotion. That heightened actingstyle, also to be seen in Kurosawa's "Seven Samurai" and severalother period pictures, plays well here because many of the sequences are,essentially, silent. Filmcameras are admirably literal, and faithfully record everything they arepointed at. Because they are usually pointed at real things, we usually thinkwe can believe what we see. The message of "Rashomon" is that weshould suspect even what we think we have seen. This insight is central toKurosawa's philosophy. The old clerk's family and friends think they'vewitnessed his decline and fall in "Ikiru" (1952), but we have seen aprocess of self-discovery and redemption. The seven samurai are heroes whenthey save the village, but thugs when they demand payment after the threat haspassed. The old king in "Ran" (1985) places his trust in the literalmeaning of words, and talks himself out of his kingdom and life itself. Kurosawa'slast film, "Madadayo" made in 1993 when he was 83, was about an oldmaster teacher who is visited once a year by his students. At the end of theannual party, he lifts a beer and shouts out the ritual cry "Notyet!" Death is near, but not yet--so life goes on. The film's hero is insome sense Kurosawa. He is a reliable witness that he is not yet dead, but whenhe dies no one will know less about it than he will.