In the years after World War II, there emerged from the EalingStudios of England a series of comedies so dry and droll, so literate andcynical, that the phrase "Ealing comedy" described them and noothers. Many starredAlec Guinness, then in his 30s, so anonymous in appearancethat he was told by an early teacher, "you will never make an actor."It was like that until the end of his days; once, while dressed as Hitler for acostume fitting, he stepped outside and failed to raise the eyebrow of apassing policeman. While the other great actors of his generation--Olivier,Gielgud, Richardson--attracted crowds wherever they went, Guinness could, hereported, go to the cinema without ever being asked for his autograph. Advertisement If he was unremarkable in person, he played a series ofremarkable characters in the movies, each one a newly-minted original. He wasshy, stammering Herbert Pocket in "Great Expectations" (1946) and twoyears later the diabolical Fagin in "Oliver Twist." He blew up"The Bridge On the River Kwai" (1957), was an eccentric painter in"The Horse's Mouth" (1958), a genial colonel in "Tunes ofGlory" (1960) and the same year a vacuum-cleaner salesman as "Our Manin Havana." He was a desert prince in "Lawrence of Arabia"(1962), a Soviet official in "Dr. Zhivago" (1965), an imperturbableIndian doctor in "A Passage to India" (1984) and Cromwell, Disraeli,Father Brown, Scrooge and of course Hitler. Little wonder his autobiography istitledBlessings in Disguise.It is an injustice that he is best remembered as Obi-Wan Kenobi in the"Star Wars" movies, which he told me were boring to make because hespent most of his time standing alone in front of a back-projection screen,reciting dialogue. Consider how unnecessary such special effects were in "KindHearts and Coronets" (1949), in which Guinness plays eight differentmembers of the same family, of both genders and a six-decade age span, by doingrelatively subtle things with makeup, posture and behavior. Because he wasnobody he could be anybody, and here he creates characters who are pompous,silly, inconsequential, or even actually nice to Louis. ("I wasglad," says the hero of the film about his employer Ascoyne D'Ascoyne,"after all his kindness to me, that I should not have to kill him.") The film began a classic run of Ealing comedies, which continuedwith "The Lavender Hill Mob" and "The Man in the WhiteSuit" (both 1951) and "The Ladykillers" (1955), in which a sweetlittle old lady buys the story that her new roomers, all crooks, are actuallymusicians. Their rehearsal sessions are priceless. All of these Ealings werebeing revived with new prints when I was in London in August 2002. The bigscreen underlined the quality of the black and white cinematography, which inthe case of "Kind Hearts" seems to owe something to "CitizenKane"--another film that begins at the end and then circles back withnarration. Advertisement The opening scene of "Kind Hearts and Coronets" showsDennis Price as Louis Mazzini, a newly-minted Duke who has methodically triedto murder his way to the title. In the last night before he is to be hanged,Louis writes his memoirs, and as he reads them aloud we journey back throughhis life. His mother, we learn, was a daughter of the aristocratic D'Ascoynefamily, who ran away with an Italian tenor and was disowned. After the tenordied on the day of the boy's birth, his mother's appeals to her family werecoldly rejected, and mother and son were reduced to a life of genteel poverty.But Louis' mother always held out the hope that he might someday inherit thetitle (which in the D'Ascoyne family descended through women as well as men).After his mother dies she is cruelly barred from the D'Ascoyne family crypt,Louis buries her in "a hideous suburban grave" and vows revenge. He pastes the family tree onto the back of his mother's paintingof the family home, where she spent her happy early days, and one by one hecrosses off D'Ascoynes as they die. A "fortunate epidemic ofdiphtheria" carries off one, but Louis will have to personally murder someof the others, and as he takes a sixpenny tour of the family seat he wondershow he will get close enough, observing sadly, "It is so difficult to makea neat job of killing people with whom one is not on friendly terms." Price is impeccable as the murderer: Elegant, well-spoken, astudent of demeanor. That is what gets him a job in the family bank, where anuncle takes pity on him. The uncle and all of the other D'Ascoynes are playedby Guinness (the list includes the Duke, the Banker, the Parson, the General,Admiral, Young Ascoyne D'Ascoyne, Young Henry, and Lady Agatha D'Ascoyne). Whatis intriguing is that all of these characters, while obviously members of thesame family, are not obviously Guinness, unless we insist on thinking of themin that way. One tactic that helps his impersonations is the tendency of thedirector, Robert Hamer, to shoot mostly in long and medium shot, generallyavoiding closeups that can be too carefully scrutinized. Advertisement Guinness plays D'Ascoynes who are tall, short or stooped, youngor old, male or female, finding the characters largely in his body language anda few wigs or beards. It is helpful, probably, that the focus of most of thescenes is on young Louis; it is significant, somehow, that the actor playingeight characters is not given top billing and the movie is not about him. The methods of Louis' murders are in the spirit of GeorgeOrwell's famous essay "Decline of the English Murder" (1946), inwhich he regretted the modern practice of simply shooting people and being donewith it. Praising the ingenuity of an earlier generation of English murders,Orwell examines those crimes "which have given the greatest pleasure tothe British public," finding that poison is the preferable means, and thatan ideal murderer is a member of the middle class who hopes to improve hissocial position or get hold of a legacy. "Kind Hearts and Coronets," set circa 1900, admirablymeets his criteria. One D'Ascoyne is dispatched by poison, another is blown upat tea, and a third is swept over a waterfall after Louis unties his boat. (Thevictim was spending an illicit weekend with his mistress at the time, and Louisobserves: "I was sorry about the girl, but found some relief in thereflection that she had presumably during the weekend already undergone a fateworse than death.") My favorite murder involves a suffragette D'Ascoynewho is demonstrating in a hot air balloon when Louis shoots her down, observing"I shot an arrow into the air/She fell to earth in Berkely Square." In the course of his rise to the Dukedom, Louis conductsparallel affairs, one with a woman he loves, the other with a woman he needs.Sibella (Joan Greenwood) is the daughter of the family where he boarded afterhis mother's death; she loves him, but believes he has no prospects, marries aboring man, and then begins to call on Louis. Greenwood's performance isluscious, with her little lisp and air of languorous petulance. The otherwoman, Edith (Valerie Hobson), is the widow of one of his victims, andwell-placed with money and position in society. When the amoral Louis is notwith the one he loves, he loves the one he's with. Advertisement Despite its murders and intrigues, its betrayals and bloodfeuds, "Kind Hearts and Coronets" has a dry and detached air,established by the memoirs of Louis, who maintains a studied distance from theevils he has committed. Wounded by the slights to his mother, he essentiallybelieves the D'Ascoynes are asking for it. The movie is unusually dependent onvoice-over narration, objective and understated, which is all the funnier bybeing so removed from the sensational events taking place. Murder, Louisdemonstrates, and Orwell would agree, can be most agreeably entertaining, solong as the story lingers on the eccentricities of the villain rather than onthe unpleasant details of the crimes.Note: The title comes from Tennyson, whose advice Louisshould have taken: "Kind hearts are more than coronets, And simple faiththan Norman blood."