William Powellis to dialogue asFred Astaireis to dance. His delivery is sodroll and insinuating, so knowing and innocent at the same time, that it hardlymatters what he's saying. That's certainly the case in "The Thin Man"(1934), a murder mystery in which the murder and the mystery are insignificantcompared to the personal styles of the actors. Powell andMyrna Loyco-star asNick and Nora Charles, a retired detective and his rich wife, playfully in loveand both always a little drunk. Advertisement NickCharles drinks steadily throughout the movie, with the kind of capacity and witthat real drunks fondly hope to master. When we first see him, he's teaching abartender how to mix drinks ("Have rhythm in your shaking ... a drymartini, you always shake to waltz time"). Nora enters and he hands her adrink. She asks how much he's had. "This will make six martinis," hesays. She orders five more, to keep up. Powellplays the character with a lyrical alcoholic slur that waxes and wanes butnever topples either way into inebriation or sobriety. The drinks are thelubricant for dialogue of elegant wit and wicked timing, used by a characterwho is decadent on the surface but fundamentally brave and brilliant. AfterNick and Nora face down an armed intruder in their apartment one night, theyread about it in the morning papers. "I was shot twice in theTribune," Nick observes."I read you were shot five times in the tabloids," says Nora."It's not true," says Nick. "He didn't come anywhere near mytabloids." Aftera prologue set three months earlier, most of the movie takes place over theholiday season, including cocktail parties on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day,and the exposure of the killer at a dinner party sometime around New Years'Eve. The movie is based on a novel by Dashiell Hammett, one of the fathers ofnoir, and it does technically provide clues, suspects and a solution to aseries of murders, but in tone and intent it's more like an all-dialogueversion of an Astaire and Rogers musical, with elegant people in luxury hotelpenthouses and no hint of the Depression anywhere in sight. "TheThin Man" was one of the most popular films of 1934, inspired fivesequels, and was nominated for four Oscars (best picture, actor, direction andscreenplay). Yet it was made as an inexpensive B-picture. Powell and Loy hadbeen successful together earlier the same year in "ManhattanMelodrama" (the last film John Dillinger ever saw), and were quickly castby MGM in this crime comedy that was filmed, incredibly, in only two weeks. Thequick shooting schedule was possible because there are very few sets andnegligible exteriors, because there is much dialogue and little action, andbecause the director, W. S. Van Dyke, was known for sticking to a schedule.That "The Thin Man" cost so little and looks so good is possiblybecause the interiors are simple and elegant, and the black and whitephotography flatters the loungewear and formalwear worn by a great-looking cast(which in addition to Powell and Loy, includedMaureen O'Sullivanand a youngCesar Romero). And there is a kind of grace in the way the 6-foot Powell hoversprotectively over the 5-6 Loy (or sometimes simply leans as if blown in herdirection). Advertisement AlthoughDashiell Hammett was known for hard-boiled fiction, and John Huston's 1941 filmof Hammett's The Maltese Falcon was one of the first examples of film noir,"The Thin Man" is essentially a drawing-room comedy with dead bodies.The plot is so preposterous that no reasonable viewer can follow it, and themovie makes little effort to require that it be followed. Nick Charlestypically stands in the midst of inexplicable events with a drink in his hand,nodding wisely as if he understands everything and is not about to share. Whena reporter asks him, "Can't you tell us anything about the case?"Nick replies: "Yes. It's putting me way behind in my drinking." Briefly,the film involves the mysterious disappearance of an inventor (Edward Ellis);the concern of his daughter (O'Sullivan), who is an old friend of Nick andNora; the greed of the inventor's ex-wife (Minna Goimbell); the even greatergreed of her gold-digging husband (Romero); the suspicious motives of theinventor's mistress (Natalie Moorhead), and various other thugs, gunsels, cops,reporters and the untiring cast of partygoers who turn up nightly at theCharles' suite for free drinks. Oneof the movie's charms is the playfulness with which Nick and Nora treat eachother, and life. During one ostensibly serious scene, Nick pretends to find apiece of lint on her blouse, and then flicks her on the nose when she looksdown; she jabs him in the side; he pretends to be about to sock her, and thenthey both try to put on serious faces. On Christmas morning, Nick tests the newair-rifle he got as a present by firing at the balloons on their Christmastree. Nick throws a dinner party for all of the suspects, with plainclothescops as waiters, and Nora tells one of them: "Waiter, will you serve thenuts? I mean, will you serve the guests the nuts?" Advertisement Themovie's only real skullduggery comes when Nick goes on a midnight prowl throughthe inventor's laboratory, and even then the real sleuthing is done by Asta(Skippy), the couple's high-spirited terrier. Nick and Nora included him in allof their activities, and Asta became one of the most famous movie dogs of histime, in part through his ability to shield his eyes with his paws when lifegrew too disturbing to contemplate. Assumingas we must that "The Thin Man" is not about a series of murders andtheir solution (that entire mechanism would be described by Hitchcock as theMacGuffin), what is it about? It is about personal style. About living life asa kind of artwork. Of the early lives of Nick and Nora we learn little, exceptthat he was once a famous San Francisco detective and retired after marryingNora. As Nick explains vaguely to a friend, her father left her a small-gaugerailroad and "oh, a lot of other things," and he looks after them. Asa consequence, Nick and Nora have a lot of money and spent their time traveling,seeing old friends, making new ones, and drinking pretty much all day long. Atone point in the film, when Nora wakens Nick in the middle of the night, heimmediately pours himself a drink and one for her, and then as she leaves theroom he greedily drinks from her glass. They are alcoholics in any realisticdefinition of the term, but not in the terms of the movie, because theirdrinking has no particular effect on themselves or the plot. It is simply abehavior, like smoking, that gives them something to do with their hands,something to talk about, and an excuse to move around the room. Even when Noraappears with an ice bag on her head, it looks more like clowning than like ahangover. MyrnaLoy was a delightful foil to Powell, but in this film she is essentially justhis playmate; Powell dominates the picture with his deep, rich voice, hisgliding, subtly unsteady physical movements, and his little mustache that hehopes makes him look more grownup than he feels. For audiences in the middle ofthe Depression, "The Thin Man," like the Astaire and Rogers musicalsit visually resembles, was pure escapism: Beautiful people in expensivesurroundings make small talk all the day long, without a care in the world, andeven murder is only an amusing diversion. Advertisement Powell'scareer began on the stage in 1912. He worked in silent films from 1922 and intalkies from their birth until 1955, when his last role was "Doc" in"Mister Roberts." He was nominated for best actor for this film, thewonderful "My Man Godfrey" (1937) and "Life with Father"(1947). But he never won an Oscar. Powell lived until 1984, when he was 92, andwas fit and active until toward the end. All through the 1960s and 1970s hisfans urged the Motion Picture Academy to give him an Oscar for lifetime achievement,but the Academy never did. To see "The Thin Man" is to watch himembodying a personal style that could have been honored, but could never beimitated.