He achieved what no other known man has achieved. To watchhis work is like being witness to the beginning of melody, or the first conscioususe of the lever or the wheel; the emergence, coordination and first eloquenceof language; the birth of an art: and to realize that this is all the work ofone man.These words byJames Ageeabout D. W. Griffith are almost bydefinition the highest praise any film director has ever received from a greatfilm critic. On the other hand, the equally distinguished critic Andrew Sarriswrote about Griffith's masterpiece: "Classic or not, 'Birth of a Nation'has long been one of the embarrassments of film scholarship. It can't beignored...and yet it was regarded as outrageously racist even at a time whenracism was hardly a household word." Advertisement Hereare two more quotations about the film: "Itis like writing history with Lightning. And my only regret is that it is all soterribly true." -- President Woodrow Wilson, allegedly after seeing it ata White House screening. The words are quoted onscreen at the beginning of mostprints of the film "...thePresident was entirely unaware of the nature of the play before it waspresented and at no time has expressed his approbation of it."--Letterfrom J. M. Tumulty, secretary to President Wilson, to the Boston branch of theNAACP, which protested against the film's blackface villains and heroic Ku KluxKlanners. Nobodyseems to know the source of the Wilson quote, which is cited in everydiscussion of the film. Not dearLillian Gish, whose "The Movies, Mr.Griffith, and Me" is a touchingly affectionate and yet clear-eyed memoir aman she always called "Mister" and clearly loved. And not RichardSchickel, whose "D. W. Griffith: An American Life" is a greatbiography. Certainly the quote is suspiciously similar to Coleridge's famouscomment about the acting of Edmund Kean ("like reading Shakespeare byflashes of lightning”). Myguess is that Wilson said something like it in private, and found it prudent todeny when progressive editorialists attacked the film. Certainly "TheBirth of a Nation" (1915) presents a challenge for modern audiences.Unaccustomed to silent films and uninterested in film history, they find itquaint and not to their taste. Those evolved enough to understand what they arelooking at find the early and wartime scenes brilliant, but cringe during thepostwar and Reconstruction scenes, which are racist in the ham-handed way of anold minstrel show or a vile comic pamphlet. Advertisement Citeduntil the 1960s as the greatest American film, "Birth" is stillpraised as influential, ground-breaking and historically important, yes--but isit actually seen? Despite the release of an excellent DVD restoration fromKino, it is all but unwatched. More people may have seen Griffith's"Intolerance" (1916), made in atonement after the protests against"Birth." It says something about my own conflicted state of mind thatI included Griffith's "Broken Blossoms" (1919) in the first GreatMovies collection, but have only now arrived at "Birth of a Nation."I was avoiding it. Butit is an unavoidable fact of American movie history, and must be dealt with, soallow me to rewind to a different quote from James Agee: "The mostbeautiful single shot I have seen in any movie is the battle charge in 'TheBirth of a Nation.' I have heard it praised for its realism, but it is also farbeyond realism. It seems to me to be a realization of a collective dream ofwhat the Civil War was like..." Ihave just looked at the battle charge again, having recently endured the pallidpieties of the pedestrian Civil War epic "Gods and Generals," and Iagree with Agee. Griffith demonstrated to every filmmaker and moviegoer whofollowed him what a movie was, and what a movie could be. That this achievementwas made in a film marred by racism should not be surprising. As a nation onceable to reconcile democracy with slavery, America has a stain on its soul; tounderstand our history we must begin with the contradiction that the FoundingFathers believed all men (except black men) were created equal. Griffithwill probably never lose his place in the pantheon, but there will always bethe blot of the later scenes of “Birth of a Nation.” It is a stark historylesson to realize that this film, for many years the most popular ever made,expressed widely-held and generally acceptable white views. Miss Gish revealsmore than she realizes when she quotes Griffith's paternalistic reply toaccusations that he was anti-Negro: "To say that is like saying I amagainst children, as they were our children, whom we loved and cared for all ofour lives." Advertisement Griffithand "The Birth of a Nation" were no more enlightened than the Americawhich produced them. The film represents how racist a white American could bein 1915 without realizing he was racist at all. That is worth knowing. Blacksalready knew that, had known it for a long time, witnessed it painfully againevery day, but "The Birth of a Nation" demonstrated it in clear view,and the importance of the film includes the clarity of its demonstration. Thatit is a mirror of its time is, sadly, one of its values. Tounderstand "The Birth of a Nation" we must first understand thedifference between what we bring to the film, and what the film brings to us.All serious moviegoers must sooner or later arrive at a point where they see afilm for what it is, and not simply for what they feel about it. "TheBirth of a Nation" is not a bad film because it argues for evil. LikeRiefenstahl’s “The Triumph of the Will,” it is a great film that argues forevil. To understand how it does so is to learn a great deal about film, andeven something about evil. Butit is possible to separate the content from the craft? Garry Wills observesthat Griffith's film "raises the same questions that Leni Riefenstahl'sfilms do, or Ezra Pound's poems. If art should serve beauty and truth, how cangreat art be in the thrall of hateful ideologies?" Thecrucial assumption here is that art should serve beauty and truth. I would liketo think it should, but there is art that serves neither, and yet provides aninsight into human nature, helping us understand good and evil. In that case,"The Birth of a Nation" is worth considering, if only for theinescapable fact that it did more than any other work of art to dramatize andencourage racist attitudes in America. (The contemporary works that made themost useful statements against racism were “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” and "HuckleberryFinn.") Advertisement Racismof the sort seen in "The Birth of a Nation" has not been acceptablefor decades in American popular culture. Modern films make racism invisible,curable, an attribute of villains, or the occasion for optimistic moralityplays. "Birth of a Nation" is unapologetic about its attitudes, whichare those of a white Southerner, raised in the 19th century, unable to seeAfrican-Americans as fellow beings of worth and rights. It is based on ThomasDixon's racist play, The Clansman, and the fact that Griffith wanted to adaptit reveals his own prejudices. Griffith,for example, was criticized for using white actors in blackface to portray hisblack villains. There are bizarre shots where a blackface character acts in theforeground while real African-Americans labor in the fields behind him. Hisexcuse, as relayed by Miss Gish: "There were scarcely any Negro actors onthe Coast" and "Mr. Griffith was accustomed to working with actors hehad trained." But of course there were no Negro actors, because blackfacewhites were always used, and that also explains why he did not need to trainany. Griffith'sblindness to the paradox in his own statement is illuminating. His blackfaceactors tell us more about his attitude toward those characters than blackactors ever could have. Consider the fact that the blackface is obvious; themakeup is not as good as it could have been. That makes its own point: Blackactors could not have been used in such sexually-charged scenes, even ifGriffith had wanted to, because white audiences would not have accepted them.Griffith wanted his audience to notice the blackface. Advertisement Someof the film's most objectionable scenes show the Ku Klux Klan riding to therescue of a white family trapped in a cabin by sexually predatory blacks andtheir white manipulators. These scenes are credited with the revival of thepopularity of the Klan, which was all but extinct when the movie appeared.Watching them today, we are appalled. But audiences in 1915 were witnessing theinvention of intercutting in a chase scene. Nothing like it had ever been seenbefore: Parallel action building to a suspense climax. Do you think they werethinking about blackface? They were thrilled out of their minds. Today,what they saw for the first time, we cannot see at all. Griffith assembled andperfected the early discoveries of film language, and his cinematic techniquesthat have influenced the visual strategies of virtually every film made since;they have become so familiar we are not even aware of them. We, on the otherhand, are astonished by racist attitudes that were equally invisible to mostwhite audiences in 1915. What are those techniques? They begin at the level offilm grammar. Silent films began with crude constructions designed to simplylook at a story as it happened before the camera. Griffith, in his short filmsand features, invented or incorporated anything that seemed to work to expandthat vision. He did not create the language of cinema so much as codify anddemonstrate it, so that after him it became conventional for directors to tella scene by cutting between wide (or "establishing") shots and variousmedium shots, closeups, and inserts of details. The first closeup must havecome as an alarming surprise for its audiences; Griffith made them and otherkinds of shots indispensable for telling a story. Inhis valuable book On the History of Film Style, David Bordwell observes thatGriffith "is usually credited with perfecting the enduring artisticresources of the story film." Bordwell has some quarrels with thatwidely-accepted basic version of film history, but Bordwell lists Griffith'sinnovations, and observes that the film "is often considered cinema'sfirst masterpiece." Oneof Griffith's key contributions was his pioneering use of cross-cutting tofollow parallel lines of action. A naive audience might have been baffled by afilm that showed first one group of characters, then another, then the firstagain. From Griffith's success in using this technique comes the chase sceneand many other modern narrative approaches. The critic Tim Dirks adds tocross-cutting no less than 16 other ways in which Griffith was an innovator,ranging from his night photography to his use of the iris shot and colortinting. Advertisement Certainly"Birth of a Nation" is a film of great visual beauty and narrativepower. It tells the story of the Civil War through the experiences of familiesfrom both North and South, shows the flowing of their friendship, shows themmade enemies as the nation was divided, and in a battlefield scene has the sonsof both families dying almost simultaneously. It is unparalleled in its recreationsof actual battles on realistic locations; the action in some scenes reaches formiles. For audiences at the time there would have been great interest inGriffith's attempts to reproduce historic incidents, such as the assassinationof Lincoln, with exacting accuracy. His recreation of Sherman's march throughGeorgia is so bloody and merciless that it awakened Southern passions all overagain. Thehuman stories of the leading characters have the sentiment and human detail wewould expect of a leading silent filmmaker, and the action scenes are filmedwith a fluid ease that seems astonishing compared to other films of the time.Griffith uses elevated shots to provide a high-angle view of the battlefields,and cuts between parallel actions to make the battles comprehensible; they arenot simply big tableaux of action. Yetwhen it comes to his version of the Reconstruction era, he tells the story ofthe liberation of the slaves and its aftermath through the eyes of a Southernerwho cannot view African-Americans as possible partners in Americancivilization. In the first half of the film the black characters are mostlyignored in the background. In the second half, Griffith dramatizes material inwhich white women are seen as the prey of lustful freed slaves, often urged onby evil white Northern carpetbaggers whose goal is to destroy and loot theSouth. The most exciting and technically accomplished sequence in the secondhalf of the film is also the most disturbing, as a white family is under siegein a log cabin, attacked by blacks and their white exploiters, while the KuKlux Klan rides to the rescue. Meanwhile,Elsie (Lillian Gish), the daughter of the abolitionist Senator Stoneman, fightsoff a sexual assault by Stoneman's mulatto servant Lynch. Stoneman has earliertold Lynch "you are the equal of any man here." Returning home, he istold by Lynch, "I want to marry a white woman," and pats himapprovingly on the shoulder. But when he is told his daughter Elsie is thewoman Lynch has in mind, Stoneman turns violent toward him--Griffith's way ofshowing that the abolitionists and carpetbaggers lied to the freed slaves, tomanipulate them for greed and gain. Advertisement Thelong third act of the film is where the most offensive racism resides. There isno denying the effectiveness of the first two acts. The first establishes abucolic, idealistic view of America before the Civil War, with the implicationthat the North should have left well enough alone. The second involvesunparalleled scenes of the war itself, which seem informed by the photographsof Matthew Brady and have an powerful realism and conviction. Griffithhas a sure hand in the way he cuts from epic shots of enormous scope to smallhuman vignettes. He was the first director to understand instinctively how amovie could mimic the human ability to scan an event quickly, noting details inthe midst of the larger picture. Many silent films moved slowly, as if afraidto get ahead of their audiences; Griffith springs forward eagerly, and theimpact on his audiences was unprecedented; they were learning for the firsttime what a movie was capable of. Asslavery is the great sin of America, so "The Birth of a Nation" isGriffith's sin, for which he tried to atone all the rest of his life. Soinstinctive were the prejudices he was raised with as a 19th century Southernerthat the offenses in his film actually had to be explained to him. To hiscredit, his next film, "Intolerance," was an attempt at apology. Healso once edited a version of the film that cut out all of the Klan material,but that is not the answer. If we are to see this film, we must see it all, anddeal with it all.