"The Adventures of Robin Hood" was made with sublimeinnocence and breathtaking artistry, at a time when its simple values rangtrue. In these cynical days when swashbucklers cannot be presented without anironic subtext, this great 1938 film exists in an eternal summer of bravery andromance. We require no Freudian subtext, no revisionist analysis; it is enoughthat Robin wants to rob the rich, pay the poor and defend the Saxons notagainst all Normans, only the bad ones: "It's injustice I hate, not theNormans." Advertisement The movie involved a couple of firsts: The first Warner Bros.film shot in the three-strip Technicolor process, and the first of 12 timesFlynn would be directed by Michael Curtiz. It was the fifth of eight films thatErrol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland would make together. Itis a triumph of the studio system. The producer,Hal B. Wallis, was the mostcreative executive on the Warner Bros. lot, and when the studio's biggest star,James Cagney, walked off angry and left "Robin Hood" without a star,Wallis had the clout and daring to cast Flynn in the role--Flynn, a young manfrom Tasmania with only one Hollywood hit, "Captain Blood." It wasWallis who decided to use the new and expensive Technicolor process, Wallis whofired an early writer who wanted to dispense with Maid Marian, Wallis who waspowerful enough to replace the original director, William Keighley, withCurtiz--because Keighley fell ill, according to one story, or because Walliswanted Curtiz to pump up the action scenes, according to another. Keighley didmost of the outdoor scenes, Curtiz did most of the studio shooting. Theresult is a film that justifies the trademark Glorious Technicolor. "Theyjust don't make movies with this level of tonal saturation any more,"writes the British critic Damien Cannon. Consider the opulent tapestries of thecastle interiors, and reds and golds and grays and greens of Milo Anderson'scostumes, the lush greens of Sherwood Forest (actually the studio ranch atChico, Calif.). The cinematographers, Sol Polito and Tony Gaudio, were usingthe original three-strip Technicolor process, which involved cumbersome camerasand a lot of extra lighting, but produced a richness of color that modern colorfilms cannot rival. Forall of its technical splendor, however, the film would not be a masterpiecewithout the casting--not just of Flynn and de Havilland, who are indispensable,but also of such dependable Warners' supporting stars asClaude Rains, as theeffete Prince John; Basil Rathbone, as the snaky Sir Guy of Gisbourne, andPatric Knowles,Eugene Palletteand Alan Hale as (respectively) Will Scarlett,Friar Tuck and Little John, the fearless Merry Men. Unlike modern films wheresuperstars dominate every scene, the Hollywood films of the golden era havedepth in writing and casting, so the story can resonate with more than onetone. Advertisement BecauseErrol Flynn in later life became a caricature of himself and a rather nastyman, it's exhilarating to see him here at the dawn of his career. He wasimprobably handsome, but that wasn't really the point: What made him a star washis lighthearted exuberance, the good cheer with which he embodies a role likeRobin Hood. WhenGeorge C. Scottwas asked what he looked for in an actor, hementioned "joy of performance," and Flynn embodies that with acareless rapture. Watch his swagger as he enters John's banquet hall and throwsa deer down before the prince, full knowing that the punishment for poaching adeer is death. Surrounded by his enemies, he fearlessly accuses John of treasonagainst his brother Richard the Lionhearted, and then fights his way out of thecastle again. Another actor might have wanted to project a sense ofuncertainty, or resolve, or danger; Flynn shows us a Robin Hood so supremely alivethat the whole adventure is a lark. Yes, his eyes shift to note that the exitis being barred and guards are readying their swords, but he observes not infear but in anticipation. Thisis the scene at which Maid Marian first sees Robin, and we first see her. ThatOlivia de Havilland was a great beauty goes without saying, but as I watchedthe new DVD of "The Adventures of Robin Hood," I found myself morethan once pausing the film to simply look at de Havilland in closeup, hercheeks rosy in Technicolor, her features fine and resolute. The shift in herfeelings about Sir Robin is measured out scene by scene. It is not a suddentransition but a gradual dawning upon her that this is the man she loves, andthat she must escape her arranged marriage to Gisbourne. Theirlove scenes, so simple and direct, made me reflect that modern love scenes inaction movies are somehow too realistic; they draw too much on psychology andnot enough on romance and fable. It is touching and revealing to see the loversin middle age in "Robin and Marian" (1976), withSean ConneryandAudrey Hepburnbridging the poignancy of their long separation, but how muchmore satisfying on an elementary level to see Flynn and de Havilland playingtheir characters as the instruments of fate; they come together not simplybecause of love or desire, but because they are so destined. Their unionsuggests the medieval ideal of chivalric love, in which marriage is a form ofGod's will. Advertisement Theswashbuckling in the movie is thrilling precisely because it is mostly real.The weakness of modern special effects pictures is that much of the action isobviously impossible, and some of the computer animation defies the laws ofgravity and physics. It is no more possible to be thrilled by Spider-Man's actionsthan by the Road Runner's. It is more exciting to see the realJackie Chanscampering up a wall than to see the computer-assisted Jackie Chan flying. Stuntmen were used in some shots in "The Adventures of Robin Hood." Butmany daring scenes obviously use the real Flynn, who, like Douglas FairbanksSr. in the 1922 "Robin Hood," wanted it known he took his chances.Some stunts are the same in both pictures, as when Robin cuts the rope holdinga gate and then rides the rope up as the gate comes down. Others includecarefree leaps from ankle-breaking heights, and of course the sword fights. Thenew Warner's DVD assembles the historians Rudy Behlmer, Paula Sigman, LeonardMaltin, Bob Thomas and Robert Osborne, for a documentary about the making ofthe film, and from them I learn that it was fencing master Fred Cavens who wasprimarily responsible for the modern movie swordfight; he believed "itshould look like a fight, not like a fencing match," and Flynn, coached byCavens, hurls himself into the sword scenes with a robust glee. SeeingFlynn in the swordfights, I tried to imagine the studio's first choice, JamesCagney, in the role. "It's an interesting concept to think of James Cagneyin his little green outfit," muses Robert Osborne. "This little shortfellow running around Sherwood Forest." Cagney was a fearless physicalactor, and as a dancer, he would have had the footwork for the fencing; thecasting is not unthinkable, but many scenes show bodies full-figure, whichwould have emphasized the difference in height between Cagney and Rathbone (butnot Rains); cast changes might have been necessary. As Cagney watched this filmeven he must have conceded that Flynn was perfect for the role. Thereare moments in "Robin Hood" as playful as a child's game, as whenRobin and his men rise to the bait of Prince John's archery tournament. Are weto believe that the most wanted men in the kingdom could disguise themselvessimply by pulling their hats low over their faces? And there are moments alittle too obvious, as when Robin takes Marion to a part of Sherwood Forestoccupied by some of the Saxons he has helped, and they skulk about like anengraving of tired and huddled masses, rousing themselves to express gratitudeto him. We knew that Robin Hood took from the rich to give to the poor, but wedidn't know he ran his own refugee camp. Advertisement Thereare also moments of bravado, as when an arrow extinguishes a candle on its wayto killing a Norman. And when Robin's arrow splits his opponent's in thearchery tourney. And the great sword fight between Robin and Sir Guy that cutsbetween the men and their shadows. And Technicolor is never more glorious thanin the big outdoor scenes of pageantry, such as the assembling of the court forthe tournament. Theintimate scenes have a directness that is almost bold. When Robin and Marianlook in each other's eyes and confess their love, they do it without edge,without spin, without arch poetry. The movie knows when to be simple. And it isthe bond between Robin and Marian, after all, that stands at the heart of themovie. The ideal hero must do good, defeat evil, have a good time and win thegirl. "The Adventures of Robin Hood" is like a textbook on how to getthat right.