WhenJohn Hustoncame back from the war andHumphrey Bogartwasa star big enough to choose his next project, the two of them chose to make afilm about a seedy loser driven mad by greed. "Wait till you see me in mynext picture," Bogart shouted to a movie critic outside a New Yorknightclub. "I play the worst s--- you ever saw." The movie wasdesolate and despairing, the nicest character in it dies trying to defend menwho were about to kill him, and the ending is not merely unhappy but like acosmic joke against the hero's dreams.Jack L. Warner, the studio boss who sentthe crew to Mexican locations and yanked them back when the budget ran out ofcontrol, thought it was "definitely the greatest motion picture we haveever made." Advertisement "TheTreasure of the Sierra Madre" (1948) is a story in the Joseph Conradtradition, using adventure not as an end in itself but as a test of itscharacters. It involves moral disagreements between a wise old man and aparanoid middle-aged man, with a young man forced to choose sides. It tellsthis story with gusto and Huston's love of male camaraderie, and itoccasionally breaks into laughter -- some funny, some bitterly ironic. Ithappens on a sun-blasted high chaparral landscape, usually desolate, except forthe three gold prospectors, although gangs of bandits and villages of Indiansmaterialize when required. At the end, it has Bogart in a delirious mad scenethat falls somewhere between "King Lear" and "Greed." Bogartplays Fred C. Dobbs, one of the movie characters everybody can name. In 1925 inTampico, he meets another drifter from America, Bob Curtin (Tim Holt). Bothhave been cheated out of hard-earned wages by a dishonest employer namedMcCormick, and when they corner him in a bar, they beat him so savagely that itseems pointless to hang around town. Their next move is suggested by theold-timer Howard (Walter Huston), who they've overheard talking about gold.They think he's good for advice and not much more, but he has the stamina of agoat and is soon filling their ears with practical advice about how to findgold, which is not too hard, and how to keep it and not get killed, which isnot too easy. Theheart of the movie takes place on the slopes of mountains, which the titleidentifies but the characters never do; they simply address it as"mountain." They are so exposed in this landscape that only Howard'sexperience and rough Spanish get them through. They start out as partners, butthe moment they find real gold, Dobbs grows avaricious, suggesting they dividetheir gains three ways, every night. Soon they're hiding their gold separately,and there is a long night when Dobbs awakens in the tent to find Howard gone,and then Curtin awakens to find Dobbs gone, and finally old Howard observes theturn has come back around to him and so why don't they get some sleep becausethey have work to do in the morning. Advertisement Howardhas been here before ("I know what gold can do to men's souls'). He playsa tactful peacemaker, agreeing with Dobbs' paranoid suggestions because heknows they will make little difference at the end of the day: Either they'llget out with their gold, or they won't. The performance is a masterpiece byWalter Huston, John's father, and won an Academy Award (John Huston won twomore, for direction and screenplay). Listen to the way the senior Huston talks,rapid-fire, without pause, as if he's briefing them on an old tale and doesn'thave time to waste on nuance. He does a famous dance when he finally findsgold, playing the stereotype of a grizzled prospector, but see how his eyes aresometimes quiet even when he's playing the fool; he reads every situation,knows his options, tries to slow Dobbs' meltdown. Bogartshows not a shred of star ego in the role, but then he didn't become a star bybeing a pretty face. His wifeLauren Bacallwrites in her memoirs that Bogartbegan to experience rapid hair loss on "Dark Passage" (1947), and wascompletely bald when he arrived at the "Treasure" locations. Doctorsblamed his drinking and a B-vitamin deficiency; B-12 shots helped his hairreturn, but in "Treasure," all three men wear wigs that werecarefully muddied and matted every morning to reflect that day's difficulties. Bogart'sbreak in pictures came in John Huston's own first film, "The MalteseFalcon" (1941), after the much bigger Warner Bros. star,George Raft,turned it down. Not tall, balding, with a scar on his lip, Bogart could play ahero but loved to be the scrappy little guy; remember his Charlie Allnut inHuston's "The African Queen" (1951). In "The Treasure of theSierra Madre," he plays a character who diminishes steadily as the storymoves along, finally disappearing into himself and his delusions. AlthoughHoward saves Dobbs' life just by being a seasoned mountain man, and Curtinpulls him unconscious from a collapsed mine, he doesn't trust either one andfinds he is capable of killing either one just to get a bigger share of thegold. Advertisement Hethinks he has killed Curtin, and the moment he does, he tips over into madness.But the harsh logic of the situation has earlier shown that murder is always achoice in these mountains. There is a poignant episode involving thesoft-spoken American Jim Cody (Bruce Bennett), who tracks them down to theircamp, offers his help, wants a share and analyzes the situation for them: Theycan either make him a partner or kill him. The scene where the three men take avote shows clearly how their moral weight balances out. Themovie is based on a novel by the elusive, legendary B. Traven, whose work showsmen cornered by the shrinking options offered by nature and danger. Traven wasfamous for being unknown; the name was a pseudonym, the author was never seen,and indeed the Hollywood agent Paul Kohner, who represented both of theHustons, acted as Traven's literary agent without ever meeting him -- or didhe? Both Huston and Kohner told me in the 1970s that an unprepossessing littleman turned up on the Mexican locations and described himself as Traven'srepresentative. This was, they decided, clearly Traven himself, but they wentalong with the fiction. I'veseen "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" many times, but watching itagain today on a new DVD, I found myself gripped as always by Bogart's closingscenes. The movie has never really been about gold but about character, andBogart fearlessly makes Fred C. Dobbs into a pathetic, frightened, selfish man-- so sick we would be tempted to pity him, if he were not so undeserving ofpity. The other two characters get more or less what they deserve at the end ofthe film, but with less satisfaction for the audience. After Howard is taken inby an Indian tribe, there is a gratuitous shot, where a young maiden pats hiswhiskers and he all but winks directly at the camera; this shot, and theidyllic village life surrounding it, belong in a lesser movie. Advertisement Asthe stories of Howard and Curtin evaporate into convention, however, Fred C.Dobbs somehow moves to a higher level of tragedy. Hearing things in the night,desperate for a drink of water, staggering under the desert sun with the goldhe valued so much, Dobbs is the tragic hero brought down precisely by hisflaws. There is a pitiless stark realism in these scenes that brings the movieto honesty and truth. Leading up to them is a down-market Shakespeareansoliloquy when Dobbs thinks he is a murderer and says, "Conscience. What athing! If you believe you got a conscience, it'll pester you to death. But ifyou don't believe you got one, what could it do to ya?" He finds out.Note:Bogart starred in twomovies where nobody actually said their most most-repeated lines. Nobody says"Play it again, Sam" in "Casablanca," and in "TheTreasure of the Sierra Madre," Alfonso Bedoya, as the bandit leader, neveractually says, "Badges? We don't need no stinking badges!" He says,"We don't need no badges. I don't have to show you any stinkingbadges."