No story could be simpler. An old couple come to the city tovisit their children and grandchildren. Their children are busy, and the oldpeople upset their routines. In a quiet way, without anyone admitting it, thevisit goes badly. The parents return home. A few days later, the grandmotherdies. Now it is the turn of the children to make a journey. Fromthese few elementsYasujiro Ozumade one of the greatest films of all time."Tokyo Story" (1953) lacks sentimental triggers and contrivedemotion; it looks away from moments a lesser movie would have exploited. Itdoesn't want to force our emotions, but to share its understanding. It doesthis so well that I am near tears in the last 30 minutes. It ennobles thecinema. It says, yes, a movie can help us make small steps against ourimperfections. Advertisement Itdoes this with characters so universal that we recognize them instantly --sometimes in the mirror. It was made 50 years ago in Japan, by a man who wasborn 100 years ago this year, and it is about our families, our natures, ourflaws and our clumsy search for love and meaning. It isn't that our lives keepus too busy for our families. It's that we have arranged them to protect usfrom having to deal with big questions of love, work and death. We escape intotruisms, small talk and distractions. Given the opportunity at a familygathering to share our hopes and disappointments, we talk about the weather andwatch TV. Ozuis not only a great director but a great teacher, and after you know his films,a friend. With no other director do I feel affection for every single shot."Tokyo Story" opens with the distant putt-putt of a ship's engine,and bittersweet music evokes a radio heard long ago and far away. There areexterior shots of a neighborhood. If we know Ozu, we know the boat will notfigure in the plot, that the music will never be used to underline or commenton the emotions, that the neighborhood may be the one where the story takesplace, but it doesn't matter. Ozu uses "pillow shots" like the pillowwords in Japanese poetry, separating his scenes with brief, evocative imagesfrom everyday life. He likes trains, clouds, smoke, clothes hanging on a line,empty streets, small architectural details, banners blowing in the wind (hepainted most of the banners in his movies himself). Hisvisual strategy is as simple (therefore as profound) as possible. His camera isnot always precisely three feet above the floor (the eye level of a Japaneseperson seated on a tatami mat), but it usually is. "The reason for the lowcamera position," the writer Donald Richie explains, "is that iteliminates depth and makes a two-dimensional space." So we are better ableto appreciate a composition because Ozu lets us notice its lines and weightsand tones -- which always reflect his exact feeling about the scene. Advertisement Healmost never moves his camera (it moves once in "Tokyo Story," whichis more than usual). Every single shot is intended to have a perfectcomposition of its own, even if that means there are continuity errors. All theshots are framed in some way. In the foreground of the interior shots, perhapstucked in a corner, is a little teapot. Ozu loves that teapot. It's like thered signature stamp of a Japanese woodblock artist; it is his maker's mark. Ifthere is movement in an Ozu film, it comes from nature or people, not from thecamera. He often shows a room before people enter, and lingers a second afterthey leave. If characters go upstairs, they are absent precisely long enough toactually do that. If a character is speaking, he shows the entire speech. Nocutaways, no listening shots, no overlapping dialogue. He is comfortable withsilences. Sometimes characters speak little and imply much; the old father in"Tokyo Story" often smiles and says "yes," and what hemeans is sometimes yes, sometimes no, sometimes deep regret, sometimes adecision to keep his thoughts to himself. Doesanyone go to a movie to watch the style? Well, yes. An elegantly refined stylelike Ozu's places people in the foreground; he focuses on the nuances ofeveryday life. His is the most humanistic of styles, removing the machinery ofeffects and editing and choosing to touch us with human feeling, not workshopstorytelling technique. Considerthe Hirayama family in "Tokyo Story." Shukichi, the grandfather, isplayed byChishu Ryu, one of Ozu's favorite actors; Tomi, the grandmother, isplayed byChiyeko Higashiyama. She is overweight and plain-faced; he has atall, fallen grace. There are no extravagant displays of affection betweenthem. We learn that he drank too much as a young man, then stopped. There arehints that their marriage was imperfect, but endured. Livingat home with them is their youngest daughter Kyoko (Kyoko Kagawa), one of themany unmarried children in Ozu's films who live with their parents. (Ozu nevermarried, and lived with his mother until she died.) Their youngest son Keizo(Shiro Osaka) works in Osaka, midway on their train journey. In Tokyo, theiroldest son Koichi (So Yamamura) is a doctor in a neighborhood clinic -- not asdistinguished as his parents imagined. He is married to Fumiko (Kuniko Miyake),and they have two sons. His sister Shige (Haruko Sugimura) is married and runsa beauty salon. A middle son was killed in World War II; their daughter-in-lawNoriko (the great starSetsuko Hara) has never remarried and is an officeworker living in Tokyo. Advertisement Thereis an extraordinary scene soon after the old parents arrive. "These areyour grandparents," Fumiko tells her oldest son, Minoru. And then to hermother-in-law: "Minoru is in middle school now." So this is the firsttime he has met them, yet he escapes quickly to his room. Ozu's lifelong themeis the destruction of the Japanese family through work and modernization, andin only two lines of dialogue, he shows us how the generations have driftedapart. Thegrown children mean well. They try to make time for their visitors. There is amoment of rich humor when we join them all on a tour bus, everyone bouncing andleaning in unison. But old folks spend most days "resting" at homebecause no one is free to take them anywhere. When Koichi brings home cakes forhis parents, Fumiko says they're too expensive, and the old folks won'tappreciate them; while discussing this, they eat the cakes. Oddly, the personwho treats them most kindly and makes time for them is Noriko, the widow oftheir middle son. Theothers feel bad that they can't spare more time for their parents and hit on asolution: They'll send them for a holiday to Atami Hot Springs. Shukichi andTomi did not come to Tokyo to go to a spa, but they agree. At the spa, we seeyoung people dancing and playing cards, and then, in one of those perfect Ozushots, two pairs of shoes placed neatly side by side outside the old couple'sdoor. The next morning, as they're sitting side by side on a sea wall, he says,"Let's go home." Peoplespend a lot of time sitting side by side in an Ozu film. Instead ofover-the-shoulder compositions, he likes two or three characters all in a row.If this causes violations of the eyeline rules (sometimes they don't seem to belooking at one another when they speak), he doesn't care. Often he views themfrom behind. He composes this way, I think, so we can see them all at once, thelisteners as well as the speakers. Thelast night in Tokyo is made of two wonderful sequences. Tomi goes to stay withNoriko, and Shukichi says he will visit an old friend from the village. Tomiand Noriko have a warm and loving conversation (the old woman tells her son'swidow she should remarry), and Shukichi gets plastered with two former villagefriends. As they drink, they complain about their lives and children, and wesee how alcohol helps them break through the resolutely positive Japanesepublic face. Allthrough the movie, Tomi and Shukichi discuss their disappointment in suchguarded words, punctuated with so many nods and agreements, that their realfeelings are hidden in code. Notice how they criticize their grandchildren bysaying they prefer their children. Listen how they agree their children are"better than average." Advertisement Theold people go home, the mother dies, and the family assembles for the funeral-- at last all lined up together in one row for Ozu's camera. Now there arereal tears, even from those who resented the visit. Chishu Ryu, that wonderfulactor, is masterful in the way he buries the old man's grief in nods,agreement, pleasantries and routine. When the old woman next door stops by toexpress her sympathy, he makes what for him is an outpouring of grief:"Oh, she was a headstrong woman ... but if I knew things would come tothis, I'd have been kinder to her." A pause. "Living alone like this,the days will get very long."