The abiding terror in Alfred Hitchcock's life was that he wouldbe accused of a crime he did not commit. This fear is at the heart of many ofhis best films, including "Strangers on a Train" (1951), in which aman becomes the obvious suspect in the strangulation of his wife. He makes anexcellent suspect because of the genius of the actual killer's original plan:Two strangers will "exchange murders," each killing the person the otherwants dead. They would both have airtight alibis for the time of the crime, andthere would be no possible connection between killer and victim. Advertisement Itis a plot made of ingenuity and amorality, based on the first novel by PatriciaHighsmith (1921-1995), who in her Ripley novels and elsewhere was fascinated bybrainy criminals who functioned not out of passion but from carefulcalculation, and usually got away with their crimes. The"criss-cross" murder deal in "Strangers on a Train" indeedwould have worked perfectly -- except for the detail that only one of thestrangers agrees to it. GuyHaines, a famous tennis player, is recognized on a train by Bruno Anthony,whose conversation shows a detailed knowledge of Guy's private life. Guy wantsa divorce from his cheating wife, Miriam (Kasey Rogers), in order to marry AnneMorton (Ruth Roman), the daughter of a U.S. senator. Over lunch in his privatecompartment, Bruno reveals that he wants his father dead, and suggests a"perfect crime" in which he would murder Guy's wife, Guy would murderBruno's father, and neither would ever be suspected. Bruno'smanner is pushy and insinuating, with homoerotic undertones. Guy is offended bythe references to his private life, but inexplicably doesn't break off theconversation -- which ends on an ambiguous note, with Bruno trying to get Guyto agree to the plan, and Guy trying to jolly him along and get rid of him. ButBruno does murder Guy's wife, and then demands that Guy keep his half of thebargain. As a plot, this has a neatness that Hitchcock must have foundirresistible -- especially since Guy has a motive to murder his wife, was seenin a public fight with her earlier on the day of her death, and even told his fiancéehe would like to "strangle" Miriam. Hitchcocksaid that correct casting saved him a reel in storytelling time, sinceaudiences would sense qualities in the actors that didn't need to be spelledout. Certainly the casting ofFarley Grangeras Guy andRobert Walkeras Brunois crucial. Hitchcock allegedly wantedWilliam Holdenfor the role of Guy("he's stronger," he toldFrancois Truffaut), but Holden would havebeen all wrong -- too sturdy, too put off by Bruno (despite the way Holdenallowed an aging actress to manipulate him in "Sunset Boulevard"). Advertisement Grangeris softer and more elusive, more convincing as he tries to slip out of Bruno'sconversational web instead of flatly rejecting him. Walker plays Bruno asflirtatious and seductive, sitting too close during their first meeting, andthen reclining at full length across from Guy in the private compartment. Themeeting on the train, which was probably planned by Bruno, plays more like apickup than a chance encounter. Itis this sense of two flawed characters -- one evil, one weak, with an unstatedsexual tension -- that makes the movie intriguing and halfway plausible, andhelps explain how Bruno could come so close to carrying out his plan. Highsmithwas a lesbian whose novels have uncanny psychological depth; Andrew Wilson's2003 biography says she often fell in love with straight women, and her storiesfrequently use a buried subtext of unstated gay attraction -- as in "TheTalented Mr. Ripley," made into a 1999 movie in which her criminal heroTom Ripley falls in love not so much with his quarry Dickie Greenleaf as withhis identity and lifestyle. Althoughhomosexuality still dared not speak its name very loudly in 1951, Hitchcock wasquite aware of Bruno's orientation, and indeed edited separate American andBritish version of the film -- cutting down the intensity of the"seductiveness" in the American print. It's worth noticing thatHitchcock also cast Granger in "Rope" (1948), based on theLeopold-Loeb case; it was another story about a murder pact with a homosexualsubtext. "Strangerson a Train" is not a psychological study, however, but a first-ratethriller with odd little kinks now and then. It proceeds, as Hitchcock's filmsso often do, with a sense of private scores being settled just out of sight.His obsession with being wrongly accused no doubt refers to a traumatic episodein his childhood, when his father sent naughty little Alfred to the policestation with a note asking the sergeant to lock him up until called for.Interesting, in this context, is Hitchcock's casting of his own daughter,Patricia, as the outspoken young Barbara Morton, kid sister of Guy's fiancéeAnne. Patricia Hitchcock and Kasey Rogers look a little alike and wear verysimilar eyeglasses; Bruno is playfully demonstrating strangling techniques at aparty when he sees Barbara, flashes back to the murder, and flips out. The kidsister gets the creepiest lines in "Strangers on a Train," especiallyduring an early meeting involving Guy and the senator's whole family; she keepsblurting out what everyone is afraid to say. Hitchcockwas above all the master of great visual set pieces, and there are severalfamous sequences in "Strangers on a Train." Best known is the onewhere Guy scans the crowd at a tennis match and observes that all of the headsare swiveling back and forth to follow the game -- except for one head,Bruno's, which is looking straight ahead at Guy. (The same technique was usedin Hitchcock's "Foreign Correspondent," where all the windmillsrotate in the same direction -- except one.) Anothereffective scene shows Guy floating in a little boat through the Tunnel of Loveat a carnival; Miriam and two boyfriends are in the boat ahead, and shadows onthe wall make it appear Bruno has overtaken them. In a scene where Guy goesupstairs in the dark in Bruno's house, Hitchcock told Truffaut, he hit on theinspiration of a very large dog to distract the audience from what he wouldprobably find at the top. Advertisement Thenthere's the famous sequence involving a runaway merry-go-round, on which Guyand Bruno struggle as a carnival worker crawls on his stomach under therevolving ride to get to the controls. (This shot was famously unfaked, and thestunt man could have been killed; Hitchcock said he would never take such achance again.) Another great shot shows Bruno's face in the shadow of his hat brim,only the whites of his eyes showing. Hitchcockwas a classical technician in controlling his visuals, and his use of screenspace underlined the tension in ways the audience is not always aware of. Healways used the convention that the left side of the screen is for evil and/orweaker characters, while the right is for characters who are either good, ortemporarily dominant. Consider the scene where Guy is letting himself into hisGeorgetown house when Bruno whispers from across the street to summon him.Bruno is standing behind an iron gate, the bars casting symbolic shadows on hisface, and Guy stands to his right, outside the gate. Then a police car pulls upin front of Guy's house, and he quickly moves behind the gate with Bruno;they're now both behind bars as he says, "You've got me acting like I'm acriminal." TheRobert Walker performance benefits from a subtle tense urgency that perhapsreflected events in his private life; he had a nervous breakdown shortly afterfilming was completed, was institutionalized for treatment, and died of anaccidental overdose of tranquilizers. (Leftover closeups from this film wereused to finish his final film, "My Son John.") Although Hitchcocksaid in Francois Truffaut's book-length interview that he didn't much likeeither of the actors, Walker's Bruno has been called one of Hitchcock's bestvillains, and Hitch agreed with Truffaut that the audience sympathy was morewith him than with Granger's playboy. Themovie is usually ranked among Hitchcock's best (I would put it below only"Vertigo," "Notorious," "Psycho" and perhaps"Shadow of a Doubt"), and its appeal is probably the linking of aningenious plot with insinuating creepiness. That combination came in the firstplace from Highsmith, whose novels have been unfairly shelved with crimefiction when she actually writes mainstream fiction about criminals. There'san intriguing note from a user of the Internet Movie Database, claiming to havespotted Highsmith in a cameo in the film. She's behind Miriam in the earlyscene in the record store, writing something in a notebook. No Highsmith cameohas even been reported in the movie's lore (all the attention goes toHitchcock's trademark cameo) but you can look for yourself, in chapter six ofthe DVD, 12 minutes and 16 seconds into the running time. To think she may havebeen haunting it all of these years. Advertisement