Movie villains smile so compulsively because it creates a creepydisconnect between their mouth and their eyes. Imagine, however, a good man,condemned to smile widely for an entire lifetime. Such a creature would bebullied as a child and shunned as an adult. "The Man Who Laughs"(1928), one of the final treasures of German silent Expressionism, is aboutsuch a man. His name is Gwynplaine. His father was a nobleman. Orphaned as achild, he is captured by outlaws who use a knife to carve his face into ahideous grin. Disfigured, alone, he rescues a baby girl, and together they areraised by a fatherly vaudeville producer. As adults, they star in theproducer's sideshow and fall in love. Because she is blind, she does not knowabout his grin. Advertisement Thisstory, set in 17th century England, was written byVictor Hugo, and made into oneof the last (almost) silent films by Paul Leni, the director of"Waxworks" (1927) and "The Cat and the Canary" (1929). Hewas an art director who grew up in Germany during the era of Expressionism --of films dominated by twisted sets and characters, harsh angles, deep shadows,careening staircases. He and his star, the greatConrad Veidt, two Jewishrefugees, made the film for Universal in Hollywood. Theimage of Veidt's face with its disturbing grimace became familiar to anyone whoopened a film history, but the film itself was hard to find; I saw it for thefirst time at the Telluride Festival in 1998, wherePeter Bogdanovichprogrammed a series from "Hollywood's Greatest Year." That was 1928,he said, when they had gotten silent films right and had not yet started to getsound films wrong. It was filmed just at the moment when Hollywood was uneasilyexperimenting with sound. Like many other films from the same year, it wasconceived in silence and then a little sound was grafted on. The movie has no significantspoken dialogue but did have rudimentary sound effects, and the Kino DVDrestoration includes a musical score, a song and some indistinct shouts duringa mob scene. "TheMan Who Laughs" is a melodrama, at times even a swashbuckler, but sosteeped in Expressionist gloom that it plays like a horror film. Everythingcenters on the extraordinary face of Gwynplaine, whose wide and mirthless grininspired the Joker character in the original Batman comic books. Unlike theJoker and most villains who smile, however, he is a good and decent man, one sohorribly aware of his disfigurement that he reveals it only on the stage, as away to earn a living. The rest of the time he hides behind masks, scarves,handkerchiefs, or his own upturned arm. The blind girl, Dea (Mary Philbin),loves him, but he thinks that is only because she does not know his secret. Theburied story here is similar to Victor Hugo's far better-known novel TheHunchback of Notre Dame, which also has a grotesque loner in love with aninnocent girl. Universal had a great success with that 1923 film, and with"The Phantom of the Opera" (1925), which also starred Mary Philbin asthe woman in the arms of a disfigured hero; no doubt the studio had those filmsin mind when it went ahead with this one. Another connection was through theexecutive producer, Paul Kohner, who at one time ran Universal's operation inBerlin (barely escaping the Nazis), and knew Leni and Veidt in Germany. Advertisement Veidt'sperformance is far more than a stunt. Best known to modern audiences for hisperformance as the erect, unsmiling Maj. Strasser in "Casablanca," heappeared in more than 100 films, including the German silent landmark "TheCabinet of Dr. Caligari." He was one of a group of German refugees whomight have made a great impact on Hollywood, had they lived. He was dead of aheart attack at 50, a year after "Casablanca." Leni died at 44, ayear after the release of "The Man Who Laughs," and F.W. Murnau,director of "Nosferatu" and "Sunrise," was dead in 1931, at43. Veidtwore a makeup device that distended his mouth while supplying grotesque teeth.It was horribly uncomfortable, making it even harder for him to projectemotions only with his eyes. And yet there are scenes where we sense love,fear, pity and lust, and an extraordinary scene (bold for the time) in which ashameless royal woman, the Duchess Josiana, attempts to seduce him. (In a noteafter a sideshow performance, she writes him: "I am she who did not laugh.Was it pity, or was it love? My page will meet you at midnight.") Herinterest is genuine, if perverse, although she has no idea where it will lead.He is tempted. In a way, he wants sex, which he has never experienced, and inanother way, he wants to remain loyal to Dea -- and yet he will never haveintimacy with Dea until he reveals his secret, and he fears she could not lovehim after learning it. His scene with the duchess has a disturbing powerbecause as he (no doubt) thinks of these things, Josiana attempts to kiss him,and we sense that her attraction to his mouth is cruel or fetishistic. He doesnot want to be kissed -- or touched, or known -- there. Advertisement Oh,but the plot is much more complicated. Gwynplaine is in fact the rightful heirto a royal title and a stately home and lands which, inevitably, are now beingenjoyed by Josiana. This is known to a jealous courtier, who wants to humiliateher by forcing her to marry Gwynplaine in order to remain a duchess. In a sceneboth pitiful and bizarre, the sideshow performer is brought to the court ofQueen Anne, inducted into the House of Lords, and then ordered to marryJosiana. She agrees out of greed and probably fascination; he resists becausehe loves Dea -- and then the film grows truly melodramatic, with theintervention of a faithful wolf-dog named Homo, who grabs at Dea's dress andliterally drags her into the action. Thefilm is more disturbing than it might have been because of Leni's mastery ofvisual style. In The Haunted Screen, her history of the German silent period,Lotte Eisner notes that the Expressionists often used unusually low ceilingsand doorways in order to force their characters to walk stooped over orsideways. Their staircases rarely climbed frankly from floor to floor, butseemed to twist away into mystery. Dramatic lighting left much of the screen indarkness. Concealment and enhancement, not revelation, was the assignment ofthe camera. Eisner quotes Leni on the visual style of his "Waxworks,"made four years before "The Man Who Laughs": "All it seeks toengender is an indescribable fluidity of light, moving shapes, shadows, lines,and curves. It is not extreme reality that the camera perceives, but thereality of the inner event..." Afilm like "The Man Who Laughs" is of course so alien to modernmoviegoers that it may repel those who can't accept it, while at the same timecreating an eerie netherworld fascination for those who can. I find that soundpictures usually inspire a certain comfort level in the way they mirror, if notlife, then the way life is perceived most of the time. Silent films, likeblack-and-white films, add by subtracting. What they do not have enhances whatis there, by focusing on it and making it do more work. When images cannot bediscussed, they must explain themselves; when no colors are visible, all colorsare potential. Advertisement Watchingthe film again last night, I fell into a reverie, sometimes moved, sometimesamused, sometimes involved in a strange dreamlike way. By not alerting us withthe logic of language, silent films can more easily slip us off into theshadows of fantasy. Remarkable, how a film like "The Man Who Laughs"refuses to declare its intentions, but freely moves from pathos to pity, frommelodrama to true excitement, from cheerful horror elements to the darkstirrings of Josiana's desire, from easy laughter when the wolf-dog saves theday to -- well, to something very moving when the blind girl realizes thenature of her lover's secret.