Growing older is a balancing act between skills that have neverbeen better, and abilities that sometimes betray. At 50, Max the Liar has neverpossessed more wisdom about his profession of burglary. But he no longer caresto make the effort, and his dream is to salt away 96 kilos in gold bars thathave been stolen at Orly Airport. Then he will retire. Max is a solid,well-groomed, impeccably dressed, flawlessly polite man whose code is so deeplyembedded that he never refers to it, even indirectly. During the course ofthree days, he uses all of his wisdom and experience to make his dream cometrue, and it is almost enough. Advertisement Maxis played byJean Gabin, named "the actor of the century" in a Frenchpoll, in Jacques Becker's "Touchez Pas au Grisbi," a 1954 Frenchcrime film that uncannily points the way toward Jean-Pierre Melville's great"Bob Le Flambeur" the following year. The two films follow similarstory arcs and have similar heroes: middle-age men, well-liked, able to figurethe odds, familiar in their haunts of clubs and restaurants, vulnerable onlybecause of the passions of their hotheaded pals. Gabin plays a man of fewwords, who displays warmth that is real but understated; a man who is alwaysthinking a step ahead, using brainwork instead of footwork or gunplay tosurvive in the underworld. His weakness is his friendship for Riton (Rene Dary), a sidekick who he calls"Porcupine Head," and who he has essentially carried for years. DoesMax love Riton? Max seems to be the current or former lover of almost everywoman in the movie, and yet, yes, Riton is who he loves. There's a lovely scenewhere Max outsmarts rival hoods who are trying to tail him, and takes Ritonwith him to a safe house -- an apartment Riton never knew existed. There he pours them a bottle of wine, makes a midnight meal of pate andbiscuits, and takes fresh pajamas, blankets and toothbrushes out of a cabinetand hands them to his friend. Although Gabin's face reveals nothing, we sensethat Max enjoys this domestic interlude more than anything else that happens inthe movie; certainly he is bored in nightclubs and tired of crime, and althoughhe visits his elegant mistress Betty (Marilyn Buferd) for conjugal observances,this involves more ritual than desire. Max, like Bob and many other French gangsters, lives in Montmartre, a districtseen with particular detail in the film. "I believe above all inParis," Becker said, and his film shows an instinctive familiarity withthe way the city works. The film opens and closes with Max dining in the samerestaurant, and notice how quietly the point is made that ordinary civiliansare not welcome, no matter how many tables are empty, when Madame Bouche'sfavorite gangsters are in the house. Max pays off a young friend's tab at theend of the evening, and in a later visit, gives Madame some money to hold forhim; the restaurant is also his bank and club. Advertisement They all leave, that first night, to escort two showgirls to the strip clubwhere they work; they are Lola (Dora Doll) and Josy (Jeanne Moreauat 25), whoRiton regards as his mistress. At the club, we meet the drug dealer Angelo(Lino Ventura) and the club owner Pierrot (Paul Frankeur), a k a"Fats." Max and Angelo seem to be on good terms, but a little laterMax opens the door of a dressing room and sees Josy being embraced by Angelo. This would come as particularly bad news to Riton, who fancies himself aladies' man and thinks Josy belongs to him, but look how elegantly Beckerresolves the situation. Instead of telling his pal that he's a cuckold, Maxadvises Riton to give up Josy. He points out aging playboys steering hookersaround the dance floor, calls attention to the bags under Riton's eyes andsuggests they go home early. Riton suggests he stay for one more drink. No,says Max, with that flat, calm Gabin delivery; he knows what one more drinkwill lead to: A bottle of champagne with Angelo, and then having to take thegirls out for onion soup, and then having to have sex ... it's easier just toleave now. The plot resolves itself as a race between Max's attempts to fence the goldbars through his Uncle Oscar (another cadaverous relic with a young mistress),and Angelo's attempts to kidnap Riton and find out where the loot is hidden.Max senses something fishy is going on and warns Riton; that leads to theirmidnight dinner. And as the two old friends turn out the lights, we realizethis opening sequence has occupied some 40 minutes with flawless storytellingthat has consisted almost entirely of small talk in the restaurant and theclub, and then a subdued chase as Max is tailed to his home. What happens the next day, I will leave for you to discover, describing only anextraordinary scene where Max learns Riton has been nabbed. Max knows thismeans the gold bars will be required as ransom. But he's less concerned aboutthe gold than about his pal, and he has a wonderful soliloquy, an interiormonologue, which we hear in voice-over, as Max paces his apartment. He talksabout what a dope Riton is, and what a burden he has been for 20 years:"There's not a tooth in his head that hasn't cost me a bundle." Weunderstand that Max, who is competent above all things, almost values Riton'sinability to live without his help. At the end of his soliloquy, instead ofgrowing angry as a conventional gangster might, Max opens a bottle ofchampagne, plays a forlorn harmonica solo on his jukebox, sits in a comfortablechair and lights a cigarette. He treasures his creature comforts, especiallywhen he might be about to lose them. Advertisement Jacques Becker (1906-1960) was not the flashiest of French filmmakers; he had away of dealing directly with his material. In this film there are no fancyshots. Almost everything is seen at eye level, point of view is respected, andthe style shrinks from calling attention to itself. Becker's directness andsimplicity inspired the affection of younger directors likeFrancois Truffaut."He invented his own tempo," Truffaut wrote after he died. "Heloved fast cars and long meals; he shot two-hour films on subjects that reallyneeded only 15 minutes. ... He was scrupulous and reflective and infinitelydelicate. He loved to make detailed films about ordinary things..." And in his review of "Touchez Pas au Grisbi" ("Don't Touch theLoot"), Truffaut noticed: "He keeps only what is essential in thedialogue, even theessentialpart of thesuperfluous." Surely themonologue about Riton's teeth is an example of that; we hear it, but we neversee the heist at Orly, nor does Max ever talk about it. "The real subjectsof 'Grisbi'," Truffaut concludes, "are aging and friendship." Consider the scene where Riton looks at the bags under his eyes in the mirror,to see if they are as bad as Max said. Remember Max saying he doesn't want togo to the nightclub because he fears he will get drowsy. And when he goes tothe club to enlist Fats in a probably dangerous mission, the club owner's wifeasks Max to take care of her husband, observing: "At my age, there's nosecond chance." Gabin himself was almost 50 when he made the film. There's not a trace ofvanity in his performance. Having played the escaped prisoner in Renoir's"Grand Illusion" and the dashing criminal in "Pepe LeMoko," he grew up to play grown-ups. Becker probably met Gabin on one ofRenoir's sets; he was the assistant to the great filmmaker in the 1930s, on"Grand Illusion," "Rules of the Game" and many other films.His own work includes two titles often ranked with "Touchez Pas au Grisbi"-- "Le Trou" (1960), about prisoners laboriously trying to escape,and "Casque d'Or" (1952), with a star-making role forSimone Signoretin a story of love and betrayal during the 1890s. Advertisement The world of French crime films is a particular place, informed by the Frenchlove for Hollywood film noir, a genre they identified and named. But the greatFrench noirs of the 1950s are not copies of Hollywood; instead, they have aparticularly French flavor; in "Touchez Pas au Grisbi," the criticTerence Rafferty writes, "real men eat pate," and this is "amongthe very few French movies about the criminal class in which neither thecharacters nor the filmmakers are afflicted by the delusion that they areAmericans." A few years later, in Godard's "Breathless" (1960),Belmondo would be deliberately channeling Bogart, but here Gabin is channelingonly himself. He is the original, so there is no need to look for inspiration."Touchez Pas au Grisbi" opens Friday with a newly restored andsubtitled print at the Music Box, and is in limited release around the country.Related reviews at Roger Ebert's Great Movies site(www.suntimes.com/ebert)include "Bob LeFlambeur," "Breathless" and "Grand Illusion."