The camera's freedom to move is taken for granted in these daysof the Steadicam, the lightweight digital camera, and even special effects thatreproduce camera movement. A single unbroken shot can seem to begin with anentire city and end with a detail inside a window -- consider the opening of"Moulin Rouge!" (2001). But the camera did not move so easily in theearly days. Thecameras employed in the first silent films were lightweight enough to be pickedup and carried, but moving them was problematic because they were attached tothe cameraman, who was cranking them by hand. Camera movement was rare; thecamera would pan from a fixed position. Then came tracking shots -- the cameraliterally mounted on rails, so that it could be moved along parallel to theaction. But a camera that was apparently weightless, that could fly, that couldmove through physical barriers -- that kind of dreamlike freedom had to waituntil almost the last days of silent films. And then, when the talkies came andnoisy sound cameras had to be sealed in soundproof booths, it was lost againfor several years. Advertisement F.W.Murnau's "Sunrise" (1928) conquered time and gravity with a freedomthat was startling to its first audiences. To see it today is to be astonishedby the boldness of its visual experimentation. Murnau was one of the greatestof the German expressionists; his "Nosferatu" (1922) invented the vampiremovie, and his "The Last Laugh" (1924) became famous for doing awayaltogether with intertitles and telling the story entirely with images. Summonedto the United States by William Fox to make a film for his new studio, Murnauworked with the cinematographersCharles Rosherand Karl Struss to achieve anextraordinary stylistic breakthrough. The Murnau admirer Todd Ludy wrote:"The motion picture camera -- for so long tethered by sheer bulk and naiveté-- had with 'Sunrise' finally learned to fly." Thefilm was released at the very moment when silent films were giving way tosound; "The Jazz Singer" was already making its way into theaters.Murnau's film actually had a soundtrack, avoiding dialogue but using music andsound effects in sync with the action. By the next year, audiences would wantto hear the actors speaking, and that led to an era of static compositions andtalking heads, unforgettably lampooned in "Singin' in the Rain." Releasedin whatPeter Bogdanovichcalls the greatest year in Hollywood history, whensilent films reached perfection and then disappeared, "Sunrise" wasnot a box-office success, but the industry knew it was looking at amasterpiece. When the first Academy Awards were held, the top prize was shared:"Wings" won for "best production," and "Sunrise"won for "best unique and artistic picture." Itsstory can be told in a few words. It is a fable, denying the characters evennames; the key players are The Man (George O'Brien), The Wife (Janet Gaynor,also an Oscar winner that year), and The Woman from the City (MargaretLivingston). In a quaint lakeside village, the city woman has come for aholiday, and lingered on to seduce and entrap the man. Ina remarkable early sequence, we see her smoking in her room, prowlingrestlessly in lingerie, and then walking through the village to the lightedwindow of the man's cottage, where she whistles (there is a low and ominousmusical note on the soundtrack). Inside the cottage, the man hears her, we seetorment and temptation in his face, and finally he slips out of the cottage;when his wife returns to the table with their dinner, he is gone, and the moviejuxtaposes her embracing their child and the woman from the city embracing him. Advertisement Butlook at the shot that shows the man and the city woman slipping off into afoggy marsh area. Although the ground is muddy and uneven, the camera seems toglide smoothly along with them, pushing through shrubbery, following theirprogress, finally watching them embrace beneath a full moon. I've seen "Sunrise"several times and always noted this shot without quite realizing how impossibleit was. NowI have had it explained. The commentary track on the 20th Century-Fox DVD is bythe gifted cinematographerJohn Bailey, who is a student of early cameratechniques and a particular admirer of Struss. He explains that the marsh is astudio set, that the sky and the moon are actually quite close, and that thecamera platform is suspended from overhead cables so that it glides behind themas they push through the mud and the shrubbery. Ifthe poetry of this scene is haunting, listen to Bailey as he analyzes some ofthe famous later scenes, including two boat trips across the lake and afantastical interlude in the city on the other shore. He has the gift, rareamong experts, of explaining his art with such love and clarity that everyonecan understand; he uses the writings of Struss, still photos taken on the set,and above all his own instinct and experience to explain how extraordinaryshots were created. Manyof the best moments involve superimposed images. At one point, we see the manbeing enveloped by two ghostly images of the woman from the city. We see atrain passing in the foreground while extras walk in the middle distance, andthe city rises in the background. We see a frenzied nightclub scene, musicianson the left, dancers in the center, all seeming to float in a void. Theseshots, Bailey explains, were created in the camera. It was an era beforeoptical printers, let alone computers; the camera operators masked part of thefilm, exposed the rest, then masked the those portions and exposed whatremained. Meticulous control of the lens and the counting of individual frameswas necessary. In addition, they were made of different kinds of reality; thetrain was a model which looked large in the foreground, the extras were real,the city was a form of matte drawing. Advertisement AsI listened to Bailey, it occurred to me that the best commentary tracks areoften by experts who did not work on the film but love it and have given it alot of thought. They're more useful than those rambling tracks where directors(notoriously shy about explaining their techniques or purposes) reminisce aboutthe weather on the set that day. Thepower of "Sunrise" comes precisely through its visual images, andBailey makes a good case that Struss, who got second billing after CharlesRosher, made the key contribution. He had purchased his own camera, powered byan electric motor, which set it free to glide through space and give"Sunrise" its peculiar dreamlike quality. And he devised techniquesto create some of the effects; looking at stills taken on the set, Bailey takeshints from such details as a black back cloth that was used to obscure part ofan image so it could be replaced with another. Thestory, as I said, is very simple, but it has power. The woman from the citypersuades the man to drown his wife so they can run away together. The film hasfew titles, but they are dramatic: the word "drown" swims into viewand then appears to run down the screen and disappear. Asthe man and his wife begin their boat journey across the lake, Bailey notesthat the camera always regards him from a high angle, even when he is toweringover his wife and the natural angle would have him looking down at the camera.This strategy keeps him subservient to the camera and emphasizes the pressurehe's under; and Murnau underlines his tortured psychological state by makingthe actor, O'Brien, wear shoes with lead weights in them, so that he stepsslowly and reluctantly. Hedoes not after all drown his wife. In the city, which is constructed fromfanciful sets that suggest the "city of the future" often seen insilent films, the man and wife fall back in love -- and then, as they returnacross the lake, a tempest overturns the boat and it appears she may have beendrowned by chance. It'svery broad melodrama, and the realism of spoken dialogue would have made itimpossible. But silent films were more dreamlike, and Murnau was a genius atevoking odd, disturbing images and juxtapositions that created a nightmarestate. Because the characters are simple, they take on a kind of moral clarity,and their choices are magnified into fundamental decisions of life and death. Advertisement Iimagine it is possible to see "Sunrise" for the first time and thinkit simplistic; to be amused that the academy could have honored it. But silentfilms had a language of their own; they aimed for the emotions, not the mind,and the best of them wanted to be, not a story, but an experience. Murnau,raised in the dark shadows of expressionism, pushed his images as far as hecould, forced them upon us, haunted us with them. The more you consider"Sunrise" the deeper it becomes -- not because the story grows anymore subtle, but because you realize the real subject is the horror beneath thesurface.F.W. Murnau's "Nosferatu" and "The LastLaugh" are also in the Great Movies collection at     www.suntimes.com/ebert/greatmovies/    .