Mike Figgis' "Leaving Las Vegas" (1995) is not a lovestory, although it feels like one, but a story about two desperate people usinglove as a form of prayer and a last resort against their pain. It is also asad, trembling portrait of the final stages of alcoholism. Those who found ittoo extreme were simply lucky enough never to have arrived there themselves. Fewfilms are more despairing and yet, curiously, so hopeful as this one, whichargues that even at the very end of the road, at the final extremity, we canfind some solace in the offer and acceptance of love. The movie tells the story of Ben and Sera, played byNicolas Cageand ElisabethShue. He is a Hollywood agent, she is a prostitute. Although prostitutes can bea cliché in the movies, and those with a good heart even more so, the detailsof their relationship leave clichés far behind, and the movie becomes the storyof these specific characters and exactly who they are. There is also the truththat a man in Ben's condition would be unable to begin any relationship withoutpaying for it. Advertisement Benis in the final stages of an alcoholic meltdown. We watch as he asks a friendin a bar for a loan and is told bluntly: "Don't drink it in here." Wesense his loneliness and need in his attempt to pick up a woman in a bar:"I really wish you'd come home with me. You smell great and you lookgreat." We see him being fired from his job, and agreeing that he shouldbe fired, and telling his boss the severance check is too generous. Then heburns all of his possessions, and there is a curling photograph in the fire,which seems to come from a failed marriage. He moves to Las Vegas with theintention of using his severance to drink himself to death. Cage'sperformance in these early scenes is an acutely observed record of a man comingto pieces. He shows Ben imploding, rigid in his attempt to maintain control, tosmile when he does not feel a smile, to make banter when he wants to scream. Heneedsa drink. During the movie, Cage willtake Ben into the regions of hell. There will be times when he has the DTs,times when he must pour booze into his throat like an antidote to death, timesof nausea, blackouts, cuts and bruises. There is a scene in a bank when his handsshake so badly he cannot sign a check, and we empathize with the way he triesto function, telling the bank teller whatever he can think of ("I've hadbrain surgery"). Yes, sometimes, he feels better, and sometimes we cansense the charm he must have had (we sense his boss' affection for him even ashe's being fired). But for Ben these moments are not about pleasure but aboutthe temporary release from pain. Serais seen in three ways: As Ben sees her, as her pimp and her clients see her,and as she sees herself in close-up monologues during therapy sessions. Herpimp (Julian Sands) is soon off the scene; it is bold of Figgis to establishhim, to show his sadomasochistic control of Sera, and then to make himdisappear in an off-screen killing. We need to know where Sera is coming from,but we don't need to linger there. ForBen, who almost runs her down in a crosswalk, she is literally the last personin his life he will be able to focus on. He loves her with the purity of a lovethat has no components, except need and gratitude. He doesn't want to have sexwith her, doesn't want her for companionship, isn't looking for an"experience." He is simply touched, somewhere inside his sufferingwhere nothing else can reach, that this woman would care for him. Advertisement Whydoes Sera love Ben? The movie leaves that for us to intuit, and the therapysessions do not explain her feelings, they only show her trying to discoverthem. There is an early monologue where she boasts about her skill as a hooker,how she can sense exactly what a client wants and provide it. That is how shewants to see herself. We also see that her pimp cuts her ("never on theface"), and we witness a night when she goes into a motel room with fourdrunken high-school athletes, and this is so unwise that we read it asdeliberately self-destructive. Sera still has her looks, but she once hadinnocence and hope, and they are gone. When she looks at Ben, she feelssympathy and empathy, but more than that, I think she feels admiration for thepurity of his gesture: Having arrived at the end of his road, he accepts hisdestiny with a certain stoic courage. Ofcourse, he could be saved. Alcoholics Anonymous meetings are filled withhealthy, functioning people who were once living Ben's life. But most drunksare not lucky enough to find sobriety. And in Ben's case, there may be anothercomponent; he is actively committing suicide. "Is drinking a way ofkilling yourself?" Sera asks him, and he replies: "Or, is killingmyself a way of drinking?" Serasenses she cannot save him. "You can never, ever, ask me to stopdrinking," he tells her soon after they meet. "Do youunderstand?" She says: "I do. I really do." As a hooker in Vegasshe has met a lot of sad and desperate men and no doubt a lot of drunks, butthere is something about Ben, she tells her therapist, that she can't get outof her mind. Oddly enough, we sense it, too. There are not many terminal drunkswe would want to spend a movie with, but we feel tender toward Ben. Of otherfamous movie alcoholics, Ray Milland's in "The Lost Weekend" was acase study, seen from outside, and Albert Finney's in "Under theVolcano" lacked Ben's self-knowledge. Themovie was made quickly, inexpensively, close to ground level. Mike Figgis is aBritish director whose career is a litany of risk-taking and original concepts;his boldest experiment was "Timecode" (2000), filmed on video in fourunbroken 90 minute shots which were simultaneously seen on a screen dividedinto quadrants. He shot "Leaving Las Vegas" on location, without permitsor permissions, using an unobtrusive 16mm camera and sometimes sending hisactors into real situations. The cinematography, by Declan Quinn, creates ahigh-contrast noir look, the shadows sometimes invaded by garish neon. Themusic reinforces it. Figgis wrote the original score, and also uses the kindsof songs ("Angel Eyes," "Come Rain or Come Shine") drunkspunch into the jukebox at 3 a.m. He repeats some of the songs, which is right:A drinking session can develop its own theme song. Advertisement Thefilm was nominated for best actor, actress, director and screenplay. Cage won,and deserved to. Shue did not win (Susan Sarandondid, for "Dead ManWalking"). It is impossible to imagine one performance without the other,and Shue is the emotional center of the film, because the Cage character is ona set trajectory and beyond the possibility of change. Shue before and sincehas been in mostly mainstream commercial movies; likeHalle Berrywith"Monster's Ball" andCharlize Theronwith "Monster," shefound a role that took her absolutely to the limit and went all the way,fearlessly. Thescreenplay is by Figgis, based on a novel byJohn O'Brien, who killed himselfat about the time the film went into production. He was 34. His father said thebook was his suicide note. The character of Ben is certainly a man who has madehis decision and will stay with it; why he kills himself with alcohol, insteadof, say, shooting himself in the head as O'Brien did, may have two answers. Thefirst, more pragmatic, is that it allows a story arc to develop, as Serafollows Ben on his final lonely journey. The second, which I feel when I watchthe film, is that Ben's guilt, or despair, or self-loathing, is so great thathe doesn't want a quick end. He wants to suffer all the way out. ThatSera brings him some comfort does not lessen his pain, and if he truly lovedher he would not want to leave her. But perhaps he is too deranged to have suchthoughts. "You are my angel," he tells her, not long before theunbearably sad and tender death scene. By then he is much more dead than alive.Nicolas Cage also stars in "     Moonstruck    ," another title in theGreat Movies collection atwww.suntimes.com/ebert/greatmovies/