Prefect's sister Adrianna Asti Mr. Faucaulte Jean-Claude BrialyDr. Legendre Aldolfo Celi Second prefectMichel PiccoliMrs. Faucaulte MonicaVitti Things first began to go wrong, Luis Buñuel teases us, in Spainin 1808, when Napoleon's troops arrived to liberate Toledo. In the openingscenes of Buñuel's savage comedy, "The Phantom of Liberty," thesoldiers execute those who would not be liberated. "Down withfreedom!" cries one of the doomed. It is the cry of a defeated socialorder. The French and American revolutions have unleashed freedom on adefenseless world, and forevermore the population will be unable to rely on theauthoritarian reassurance of church and state. Advertisement Aftera scene of typically Buñuelian surrealism -- a drunken soldier tried to embracea marble woman, and is banged on the head by the sculpture's husband -- thefilm's action moves to contemporary France and stays there. But it doesn't stayin any one place very long. The movie's a fluid, dizzying juggling act of manystories and cheerfully bizarre coincidences. Buñuelsweeps us into each new vignette so quickly there's no time to hang aroundwhile the last one is tidied up. We meet characters, they confront a crisisinvolving insanity, illegality, doom, fetishism, institutional stupidity or allof the above, and then, just as the cause of the crisis is revealed as aparadox, the characters cross paths with a new set of characters and we're offon their heels. Buñuel's camera often enters a scene with one set of charactersand leaves with another, a device that was used again in "Slacker"(1991). IfI attempted to describe them, Buñuel's interlocking yet disconnected storeswould sound bewildering. But his film is strangely lucid; it has the heightenedreality of a dream. This material couldn't work if the director weren'tsupremely confident. And at the age of 75, when most directors are dictatingtheir memoirs, Luis Buñuel was still refining his style and finding new ways tohumor his pet personal obsessions. "The Phantom of Liberty" uses hisusual prejudices and fetishes to play variations on his favorite theme, whichmight be stated: In a world cast loose of its moorings by freedom, only anarchyis logical. Buñuelhas always, of course, included an aura of guilty sadomasochism in his movies.His characters are frequently adults pretending to be naughty little boys andgirls (like the cardinal who wanted to be a gardener in "The DiscreetCharm of the Bourgeoisie"). His fetishes are presented with such exquisitetiming, with such a horselaugh in the face of propriety, that we've got tolaugh. ("That was a wonderful afternoon little Luis spent on the floor ofhis mother's closet when he was 12, and he's been sharing it with us eversince," Pauline Kael once said.) Advertisement In"The Phantom of Liberty," for example, one of the most shocking yetfunniest scenes takes place in a wayside inn. Four monks pray for a woman'sailing father. They join her in a poker game, only to be invited to anotherguest's room for port. The other guest and his female companion disappear, thenleap back into sight (she dressed in leather and with a whip), primed forflagellation. As the shocked guests rush out of the room, the would-be victimsays plaintively, "Can't at least the monks stay?" Inanother scene, a mass killer, found guilty, is released and signs autographs.Guests are cheerfully scatological at the dinner table but sneak into thebathroom to eat their dinner. A man in a playground gives a little girlpostcards ("Show them to your friends but not to adults!"). When herparents see the cards, which are views of historical landmarks, they fire thegirl's nurse. Another little girl is reported missing at school, even thoughshe is quite clearly there and accompanies her parents to the police station.And so on. Themost impressive thing about the movie is the way Buñuel leads us effortlesslyfrom one wacky parable to the next. We ought to be breathless but we aren'tbecause his editing makes everything seem to follow with inevitable logic. Itdoesn't of course, but that's freedom's fault: If people want liberty, theyshouldn't be expected to count on anything. "The Phantom of Liberty"is a tour de force, a triumph by a director confronting almost impossiblecomplications and contradictions and mastering them. It's very funny, allright, but remember: With Buñuel, you only laugh when it hurts. Advertisement