Two brothers, one consumed by greed, the other by envy. In atime when the land is savaged by marauding armies, they risk their families andtheir lives to pursue their obsessions. Kenji Mizoguchi's "Ugetsu"(1953) tells their stories in one of the greatest of all films -- one which,along with Kurosawa's "Rashomon," helped introduce Japanese cinema toWestern audiences. The heroes are rough-hewn and consumed by ambition, but thefilm style is elegant and mysterious, and somehow we know before we are toldthat this is a ghost story. Advertisement Theopening shot is one of Mizoguchi's famous "scroll shots," so namedfor the way it pans across the landscape like a Japanese scroll painting. Wesee a village, the roofs of the rude houses weighed down by tree branches tokeep them from blowing away in the wind. We meet Genjuro (Masayuki Mori), apotter, and his brother Tobei (Eitaro Ozawa), a farmer. Although gunshots onthe wind suggest an army is near, Genjuro is loading a cart with bowls, cupsand vases, packed in straw. His wife Miyagi (Kinuyo Tanaka) begs him not torisk a trip to the city at this time of conflict -- to stay home to protect herand their son. But he insists, and Tobei, filled with goofy excitement, insistson coming along, despite the protests of his wife Ohama (Mitsuko Mito). Genjuroreturns with treasure: gold coins, which he insists his wife weigh in her hand.He makes her a gift of a beautiful fabric, bought in the city, but doesn'tunderstand when she says that the cloth means less than his love for her. Allhe can talk about is making more pots and more money. Blinded by the gold, hereturns to his work with a frenzy. Tobeisees a great samurai on their trip and tries to enlist in his army, but isturned away as a "dirty beggar" because he has no armor. Now the twomen plan their next assault on the city, although when an army sweeps throughon the night they have fired the kiln, they fear their work has been lost. Notso; the pots survive, and this time they think it will be safer to journey byboat across the lake to the city, instead of by land. Thefamous lake scene is the most beautiful in the film. Shot partly on a tank withstudio backdrops, it creates a world of fog and mist, out of which emerges alone boatman who warns them of pirates. Genjuro returns to leave his wife andchild on the shore, and continues with Tobei and Ohama. In the city, his worksells quickly, and he is invited to the castle of a beautiful noblewoman namedLady Wakasa, who admires his craftsmanship. She's played byMachiko Kyo, one ofthe greatest stars of the period, who was also the woman in"Rashomon." Advertisement Tobeiwanders off from his wife and his brother. Time passes. He clumsily kills asamurai and steals the head of a foe that the samurai had killed. Presentingthis trophy to the samurai lord, he is praised and given a horse, a house andmen to follow him. Filled with pride, he brings his men for the night to ageisha house, only to find that his wife, raped by soldiers after he abandonedher, has become a geisha. Elsewherein the city, Genjuro visits a fabric shop and imagines his wife's joy when hebrings her more beautiful dresses, but then Lady Wakasa appears, suggesting hemay need a guide to her castle. He is mesmerized by her strange beauty; made uplike a Noh heroine with smudges for eyebrows high on her forehead, her faceshadowed by veils and a wide straw hat, she is like no woman he has ever seen. Atthe castle, she drifts from behind screens and curtains and, regarding hissimple pots, asks him, "How is such beauty created?" She praises andseduces him, and the critic Pauline Kael remembers she gasped with delight whenhe cried, "I never dreamed such pleasures existed!" Perhaps Genjuroshould have taken warning when he heard the voice of the lady's dead fatherechoing through the room, and when her lady-in-waiting advised him, "Don'tbury your talents in a small village! You must marry her!" Mizoguchi(1898-1956) was famous for the theory that one scene should equal one cut,although sometimes he made exceptions. The greatYasujiro Ozuhad the sametheory, with the difference that Ozu's camera never moved in his later films,while Mizoguchi's style was constructed around flowing, poetic camera movement.Consider a scene where Lady Wakasa visits Genjuro as he is bathing in anoutdoor pool, and as she enters the pool to join him, water splashes over theside and the camera follows the splash into a pan across rippling water thatends with the two of them having a picnic on the grass. Advertisement Thereis a crucial sequence when Genjuro goes back into the city, and on his returnto the lakeside castle, is halted by a priest, who calls after him: "I seedeath in your face! Have you encountered a ghost?" He warns Genjuroagainst being "beguiled by a forbidden form of love." Backat the castle Lady Wakasa begins to embrace Genjuro, but recoils, crying out,"There is something on his skin!" Indeed, the priest has coveredGenjuro with symbols of exorcism, which seem to burn the noblewoman as if theyare flames. LadyWakasa is of course a ghost (we never doubted it), and there is a hauntingscene when Genjuro sees the castle as it really is, a burned ruin. There is asecond ghost in the movie who we do not suspect, and the revelation in thatcase creates a touching emotional release. It comes toward the end, after bothmen have returned chastened to their village, and are forgiven by their wivesfor the male weakness of blinding ambition. Ilearn from an article by Gary Morris in the Bright Lights Film Journal thatMizoguchi may have drawn on his own life in the story of "Ugetsu."When the director was a boy of 7, Morris writes, his father lost the familyfortune in a reckless business venture. They moved to a poor district, and his14-year-old sister Suzu "was put up for adoption and eventually sold to ageisha house." So perhaps the sins of the father were visited uponMizoguchi's two heroes. Ina career that started in 1923, Mizoguchi ended with a series of masterpieces,including "Life of Oharu" (1952), "Sansho the Bailiff"(1954) and "Street of Shame" (1955), which in its consideration ofgeishas perhaps draws on the life of his sister. To enter his world, likeentering Ozu's, is to find a film language that seems to create the mood itconsiders; the story and its style of telling are of one piece. Thecharacters in "Ugetsu" are down to earth, and in the case of Tobei,even comic, but the story feels ancient, and indeed draws on the ghost legendsof Japanese theater. Unlike ghost stories in the West, Mizoguchi's film doesnot try to startle or shock; the discovery of the second ghost comes for us asa moment of quiet revelation, and we understand the gentle, forgiving spiritthat inspired it. Advertisement Norare Lady Wakasa's seduction techniques graphic; she conquers Genjuro not bybeing sexy or carnal, but by being distant and unfamiliar. Always completely cloaked,often hidden by veils, she enchants him not by the reality of flesh but by itstantalizing invisible nearness. I was reminded of Murnau's silent masterpiece"Sunrise" (1928), also about a country man who abandons his wife andchild to follow an exotic woman across a lake to the sinful city. Theperiod detail is accurate and rich. The city marketplace, the headquarters ofthe samurai, Tobei's visit to a shop to buy armor and a spear, Genjuro's hastewhen he asks another merchant to watch his prized pots (for he must hurry afterLady Wakasa) -- all of these create a feudal world in which life is hard andescape comes through the silly dreams of men. Women are more cautious, andthere is a blunt realism in the sequence where Miyagi, left behind, tries toprotect and feed their son as armies loot and rape the countryside. At the endof "Ugetsu," aware we have seen a fable, we also feel curiously as ifwe have witnessed true lives and fates.