Glenn Fordplays a straight-arrow police detective named Bannionin Fritz Lang's "The Big Heat" (1953) -- unbending, courageous,fearless. He takes on the criminals who control the politics in his town anddefeats them. One of his motives is revenge for the murder of his wife, buteven before that happens he has an implacable hatred for the gang headed byMike Lagana (Alexander Scourby) and his right-hand man Vince Stone (LeeMarvin). "Thieves," he calls them, preferably to their faces. He isthe good cop in a bad town. Advertisement Thatat least is the surface reality of the film. But there is another level coilingaway underneath, a subversive level in which Lang questions the human cost ofBannion's ethical stand. Two women lose their lives because they trust Bannion,and a third is sent to her death because of information Bannion gives her. Thatmay not have been his conscious intention, but a cop as clever as Bannionshould know when to keep his trap shut. Thefilm is as deceptive and two-faced as anything Lang ever made, with its sunnydomestic tranquility precariously separated from a world of violence. Bannionthinks he can draw a line between his loving wife and adorable child, and thevillains he deals with at work. But he invites evil into the lives of his wifeand two other women by his self-righteous heroism. Does it ever occur to himthat he is at least partly responsible for their deaths? No, apparently itdoesn't, and that's one reason the film is so insidiously chilling; hecontinues on his mission oblivious to its cost. Oh, he's right, of course, thatLagana and Stone are vermin. But tell that to the women he obliviously sendsinto harm's way. He'sworking on a case that begins with the suicide of a cop who was sick of beingon the mob's payroll. He questions Bertha, the cop's widow (Jeanette Nolan),who says her husband killed himself because he was sick. Bannion doesn't thinkher story smells right, and then is approached by Lucy (Dorothy Green), thecop's mistress, who tells him the cop was in perfect health. Bannion unwiselytells Bertha what Lucy told him, she tells Lagana, and Lucy is dumped dead on acounty road. If he suspects Bertha and half-believes Lucy, and Bertha is stillalive, then she must be talking to the mob. Why didn't Bannion suspect that?How naive can he be? Bannionis told by his boss to lay off the case: "I got a call fromupstairs." That night his wife (Jocelyn Brando, Marlon's sister) gets athreatening telephone call, and Bannion is enraged. He walks into Lagana'shouse, threatens him and beats up his bodyguard. Does he think this might puthis own family in danger? Apparently not, until a bomb goes off when his wifestarts the car. Withina few days, he threatens Vince Stone and orders him out of the bar where themob hangs out. Stone's girl Debby (Gloria Grahame), fed up with Stone, followsBannion onto the street. He takes her to his hotel room, where they drink andhe pumps her for information, and there is just a moment when he almost forgetshe is a recent widower. Advertisement Debbywas followed to the hotel, and when she returns to Stone, he throws a pot ofboiling coffee into her face, in one of the most famous scenes in noir history.Her face half-covered by bandages, she escapes from the hospital and asksBannion to protect her. He tells her that Bertha the widow has the goods on themob, is being paid off by the week and has arranged for the information to goto the papers if she dies. Doeshe tell Debby this because he wants her to kill the widow? Does it even occurto him that she might, as a way of avenging the scars to her face? Does heexpect that will lead to her own death? Of course not. In a passive-aggressiveway, he blandly sets these women up for death. When the elderly, lamebookkeeper at a junkyard risks her life to give him information about hiswife's killer, he even persuades her to knock on the killer's door so she canidentify him. Dangerous? Yes, but, to Bannion, an acceptable risk -- for her. FritzLang (1890-1976) was one of the cinema's great architects of evil. His"Metropolis" (1927) is one of the best of all silent films, but itwas with "M" (1931), and Peter Lorre's eerie performance as a childmurderer, that he stared unblinking at pure malevolence. He fled Hitler andGermany and became a prolific director of Hollywood genre pictures -- somecompetent, some masterpieces of film noir, the greatest "The BigHeat." There is a kind of ironic pessimism in his work, undermining theapparent bravery of his heroes. GlennFord plays a perfectly acceptable honest cop in "The Big Heat." Hecan be quiet and contained and implacable, butthatBannion is for surface and show. Whenhe gets angry, he's capable of sudden violence -- as when he nearly stranglestwo characters. "The Big Heat" advances dutifully with Bannion like aconventional police procedural until about the halfway point, when it takesfire with the performances ofLee Marvinand Gloria Grahame. Thisis one of the inspired performances of Grahame, a legendary character whobecame known as the "Can't Say No Girl," and not just because shesang the song in "Oklahoma!" Her untidy personal life led to fourmarriages and many affairs; one of her husbands was the directorNicholas Ray,after she worked for him in "In a Lonely Place" (1950), and anotherwas Ray's son, Anthony. She won an Oscar for best supporting actress for"The Bad and the Beautiful" (1952) and should have won again the nextyear for "The Big Heat," where her energy is the best reason to seethe film. Advertisement Therewas something fresh and modern about Grahame; she's always a little ditzy, asif nodding to an unheard melody. She was pretty but not beautiful, sassy but ina tired and knowing way, and she had a way of holding her face and her mouthrelatively immobile while she talked, as if she was pretending to bewell-behaved. "It wasn't the way I looked at a man," she said,"it was the thought behind it." Shealways seems a little unstrung in "The Big Heat," as if she knowsshe's in danger and is trying to kid herself that she isn't. The Marvincharacter can be brutal to women; he hits one in a nightclub, and she tellsBannion that he hit her, too, "but most times, it's a lot of fun.Expensive fun." Intriguing,how she half-tries to seduce him in his fleabag hotel room: "You're aboutas romantic as a pair of handcuffs. Didn't you ever tell a girl pretty things?You know, she's got hair like the west wind, eyes like limpid pools, and skinlike velvet?" LeeMarvin made a scary foil for her, with his long, lean face and hisugly-handsome scowl. If Alexander Scourby's mob boss seems like a writer'sconceit, Marvin's character brings real menace into the picture, coldly andwithout remorse. The scene with the scalding coffee has become so famous thatyou forget it happens off-screen. Afterward,when the bandaged Debby turns to Bannion for protection, she bravely stilltries to keep up her act: "I guess the scar isn't so bad -- not if it'sonly on one side. I can always go through life sideways." Onthe surface, "The Big Heat" is about Bannion's fearless one-manstruggle against a mob so entrenched that the police commissioner is a regularat Marvin's poker game. But if that were its real subject, it would be long andflat and dry. Thewomen bring the life into it, along with Lee Marvin. We add up the toll. LucyChapman, the B girl who loved the suicidal cop and is betrayed by Bannion.Bannion's wife, who trusted him to protect her. And Debby, who likes him andmaybe feels sorry for him, and gets her face scarred as a result, and then issent to do his errand for him. After he explains to her how the widow's deathwill destroy the mob, he quietly mentions that he himself almost killed Berthaan hour ago, planting the seed. (Before she kills the widow, Debby stays incharacter: "We should use first names, Bertha. We're sisters under themink.") Advertisement WhenBannion returns to his job, reclaims his old desk, is greeted by his fellowcops and goes out on another case, he lets the guys know it's still business asusual; as he leaves the office he calls back over his shoulder, "Keep thecoffee hot." Not,under the circumstances, very tactful. Bannion's buried agenda is to set up thewomen, allow their deaths to confirm his hatred of the Lagana-Stone crew, andthen wade in to get revenge. Of course he doesn't understand this himself, andit is perfectly possible for us to watch the movie and never have it occur tous. That's the beauty of Lang's moral ambidexterity. He tells the story of a heroiccop, while using it to mask another story, so much darker, beneath.