Most crime movies begin in the present and move forward, butfilm noir coils back into the past. The noir hero is doomed before the storybegins -- by fate, rotten luck, or his own flawed character. Crime moviessometimes show good men who go bad. The noir hero is never good, just kiddinghimself, living in ignorance of his dark side until events demonstrate it tohim. "Outof the Past" (1947) is one of the greatest of all film noirs, the story ofa man who tries to break with his past and his weakness and start over again ina town, with a new job and a new girl. The movie starsRobert Mitchum, whoseweary eyes and laconic voice, whose very presence as a violent man wrapped inindifference, made him an archetypal noir actor. The story opens before we'veeven seen him, as trouble comes to town looking for him. A man from his pasthas seen him pumping gas, and now his old life reaches out and pulls him back. Advertisement Mitchumplays Jeff Bailey, whose name was Jeff Markham when he was working as a privateeye out of New York. In those days he was hired by a gangster named WhitSterling (Kirk Douglas, electrifying in an early role) to track down a womannamed Kathie Moffat (Jane Greer, irresistibly mixing sexiness and treachery).Kathie shot Sterling four times, hitting him once, and supposedly left with$40,000 of his money. Sterling wants Jeff to bring her back. It's not, he says,that he wants revenge: "I just want her back. When you see her, you'llunderstand better." Thatwhole story, and a lot more, is told in a flashback. When we meet Jeff at thebeginning of the film, it's in an idyllic setting by a lake in the Sierras,where he has his arm around the woman he loves, Ann (Virginia Huston). He bendsover to kiss her when they're interrupted by Jimmy (Dickie Moore), the deaf andmute kid who works for him at the station. Jimmy uses sign language to say astranger is at the station, asking for him. This man is Sterling's hired gun,named Joe Stephanos (Paul Valentine), and he tells Jeff that Sterling wants tosee him in his lodge on Lake Tahoe. Jefftakes Ann along on the all-night drive to Tahoe, using the trip to tell her hisstory -- his real name, his real past, how he tracked Kathie Moffat to Mexicoand fell in love with her. ("And then I saw her, coming out of the sun,and I knew why Whit didn't care about that 40 grand.") He tells Ann more,too: How he lied to Sterling about finding Kathie, how he and Kathie slippedaway to San Francisco and thought they could live free of the past, how theywere spotted by Fisher (Steve Brodie), Jeff's former partner. Fisher followedthem to a remote cabin, where Kathie shot him dead, leaving Jeff behind withthe body and a bank book revealing she indeed had stolen the $40,000. Advertisement Thestory takes Jeff all night to tell, and lasts 40 minutes into the film. Thenwe're back in the present again, at the gates of Sterling's lodge. Ann drivesaway and Jeff walks up the drive to square with his past. In the lodge, notreally to his surprise, he finds that Kathie is once again with Sterling. ThisSterling is a piece of work. Not only has he taken Kathie back after she shothim, he wants to hire Jeff again after he betrayed him. This time he needs himto deal with Leonard Eels, an accountant in San Francisco who keeps Sterling'sbooks, and is blackmailing him with threats involving the IRS. Themeeting between Mitchum and Douglas opens on a note of humor so quiet, it maypass unnoticed. "Cigarette?" offers Douglas. "Smoking,"said Mitchum, holding up his hand with a cigarette in it. Something about thatmoment has always struck me as odd, as somehow outside the movie, and I askedMitchum about it after a screening of "Out of the Past" at theVirginia Film Festival. "Didyou guys have any idea of doing a running gag involving cigarettesmoking?" I asked him. "No,no." "Becausethere's more cigarette smoking in this movie than in any other movie I've everseen." "Wenever thought about it. We just smoked. And I'm not impressed by that because Idon't, honest to God, know that I've ever actually seen the film." "You'veneverseenit?" "I'msure I have, but it's been so long that I don't know." Thatwas Mitchum for you, a superb actor who affected a weary indifference to hiswork. Thereis a lot of smoking in "Out of the Past." There is a lot of smokingin all noirs, even the modern ones, because it goes with the territory. Goodhealth, for noir characters, starts with not getting killed. But few movies usesmoking as well as this one; in their scenes together, it would be fair to saythat Mitchum and Douglas smokeateach other, in a sublimated form offencing. The director isJacques Tourneur, a master of dark drama at RKO, alsofamous for "Cat People" (1942) and "I Walked with a Zombie"(1943). He is working here for the third time with the cinematographer NicholasMusuraca, a master of shadow but also of light, and Musuraca throws light intothe empty space between the two actors, so that when they exhale, the smoke isvisible as bright white clouds. Advertisement Mitchumand Douglas think the story involves a contest of wills between them, when infact, they're both the instruments of corrupt women. Kathie betrays both menmore than once, and there is also Meta Carson (Rhonda Fleming), the sultry"secretary" of Eels the accountant. What's fascinating is the wayJeff, the Mitchum character, goes ahead, despite knowing what's being done tohim. How he gets involved once again with Sterling and Kathie, despite alltheir history together, and how he agrees when Meta suggests a meeting withEels, even though he knowsandeven says"I think I'min a frame," and points out that he's been given a drink so that hisprints will be on the glass. Thescenes in San Francisco, involving the murder of Eels, the whereabouts of thetax records and the double-dealing of Meta Carson, are so labyrinthine, it'sremarkable even the characters can figure out who is being double-crossed, andwhy. The details don't matter. What matters is the way that Jeff, a street-wisetough guy, gets involved in the face of all common sense, senses a trap, thinkshe can walk through it, and isstillfascinated by Kathie Moffat. Hefirst reveals his obsession in Mexico, when Kathie claims she didn't take the40 grand. "ButI didn't take anything. I didn't, Jeff. Don't you believe me?" "Baby,I don't care." Andlater, although he tells her, "You're like a leaf that the wind blows fromone gutter to another," he is attracted to her, lured as men sometimes areto what they know is wrong and dangerous. Filmnoir is known for its wise-guy dialogue, but the screenplay for "Out ofthe Past" reads like an anthology of one-liners. It was based on the 1946novelBuild My Gallows Highby "Geoffrey Homes," apseudonym for the blacklisted Daniel Mainwaring, and the screenplay credit goesto Mainwaring, reportedly with extra dialogue by James M. Cain. Advertisement Butthe critic Jeff Schwager read all versions of the screenplay for a 1990 FilmComment article, and writes me: "Mainwaring's script was not very good,and in one draft featured awful voice-over narration by the deaf-mute. Cain'sscript was a total rewrite and even worse; it was totally discarded. The greatdialogue was actually the work of Frank Fenton, a B-movie writer whose bestknown credit was John Ford's 'Wings of Eagles.'" Listento the contempt with which Sterling silences his hired gun, Stephanos:"Smoke a cigarette, Joe." And "Think of a number, Joe."Listen to Joe tell Jeff how he found his gas station: "It's a smallworld." Jeff: "Yeah. Or a big sign." Kathie saying "I hatehim. I'm sorry he didn't die." Jeff: "Give him time." Jeff'sfriend the cab driver, assigned to tail Meta Carson: "I lost her."Jeff: "She's worth losing." Jeff to Kathie: "Just get out, willyou? I have to sleep in this room." Kathie to Jeff: "You're no good,and neither am I. That's why we deserve each other." And in the movie'smost famous exchange, Kathie telling him, "I don't want to die."Jeff: "Neither do I, baby, but if I have to, I'm going to die last." Themovie's final scene, between the hometown girl Ann and Jimmy, Jeff's hired kidat the gas station, reflects the moral murkiness of the film with its quietambiguity. I won't reveal the details, but as Jimmy answers Ann's question, ishe telling her what he believes, what he thinks she wants to believe, or whathe thinks it will be best for her to believe?