Fathered by strangers, abandoned by their mothers, thrown awayby society, the children of "Pixote" live by their wits on the cruelstreets of Sao Paolo in Brazil. They improvise their own families, formingshifting alliances based on need, fear and even love. Their economy is based onthe only two markets open to them, those for sex and drugs. Many of them are soyoung, they only vaguely understand sex; they are hardened to sights and experiencesthey even don't comprehend. Hector Babenco's 1981 film was created in the spirit of Italianneo-realism; his child actors are the real thing, discovered in the streets andessentially playing themselves. The adult characters are mostly played by professionalactors, but these performances coming from completely different backgroundsseem to feed from the same desperation. There is no answer to the problem ofthe millions of homeless children, no remedy, no hope. It is not surprising tolearn that Fernando Ramos da Silva, the illiterate 11-year-old who playsPixote, returned to the streets and was killed by police bullets in 1987. Advertisement Themovie is told in a loosely structured, episodic style. Not every scene pays offneatly or makes a smooth connect with the next one. The jagged tone seemsappropriate for these lives, which have no continuity, no balance point, noreason for something to happen today, tomorrow or ever. Ina society of children and adolescents who have no homes and no money, crime isthe natural way of survival, but they're not very good at it (the gangs in"City of God," made 20 years later, are much more sophisticated).Their approach to crime, as to life, is thoughtless improvisation; they respondto situations, but have no control over them. We sense that Babenco isn'tleading his characters but following them, and scenes don't always have a pointor a purpose because neither do these lives. Wemeet Pixote when he is rounded up along with other street kids after the murderof a judge. Society demands the appearance of justice and revenge, and so themurder will be pinned on one of them -- never mind if it's the right one ornot. Some fairly confusing dialogue indicates that one of these kids may havebeen involved in the crime, or witnessed it, but solving the crime is not thepoint of the movie, and the police despair of ever knowing who the real killeris. The code of silence, enforced by the possibility of death, is complete. Thekids are taken to a reformatory. Inside would be better for them than outside,if it weren't for the brutality of the guards, the corruption of the staff andthe crimes of one prisoner against another (on his first night, Pixotewitnesses a rape). Facesand characters form out of the crowd. The most striking is Lilica (JorgeJuliao), a transvestite whose sexual nature is accepted casually by the others.He's older -- 17, in a nation where he can't be charged with a crime until he's18. Then there are Dito (Gilberto Moura), looking cherubic under a crown ofcurly hair, and Chico (Edilson Lino). Advertisement Withoutagreeing to it, discussing it or even really noticing it, they form a groupbased on their shared vulnerability and trust. When things get dangerous insidethe reformatory, and it's clear some of them may die at the hands of brutalguards or cops with secrets to hide, they escape and return to the streets.It's not that hard: they go through an open window to a rooftop. (One kid, witha leg brace, decides not to escape: "It's better for me here.") Wecan anticipate, more or less, what happens in the first half of the film, whichis not a million miles from the poverty and crime in, say,Oliver Twist.The second half of the film is adescent into hell; indeed, the dominant tones become red and orange instead ofthe muted drabness of the earlier scenes. Lilicais picked up by a sometime client or lover or pimp named Cristal (TonyTornado). He can wholesale them some drugs. They snatch purses to raise thecash, prowling the city streets like a wolf pack. They ride the rails to Rio tosell the drugs, are victimized by their customers and end up living with adeteriorating prostitute named Sueli (Marilia Pera, who won the best actressaward from the National Society of Film Critics). Sheis the fifth member of the family, but then it begins to shrink. Two of theboys are killed, and Lilica walks out one night -- jealous because theprostitute has seduced a boy he cares for. Even earlier, Lilica was uneasyaround Sueli, and indeed, he seems more feminine, more maternal, more caringthan the hard woman of the streets. Lilica has a self-awareness the otherslack, sighing at one point, "What can a queer expect from life?"Pixote replies, "Nothing, Lilica," but in his world no one can expectanything. Then Lilica is gone, and at the end, everyone is gone, except forSueli and Pixote. Pixotehas obtained a gun, and he uses it. How, I will not reveal, except to say thatit is shocking how impassive he seems after killing two people, one by mistake.His wide, open eyes don't seem to register the result of his actions, and hisface doesn't seem to register feeling about it -- until, hours later, sittingat the foot of Sueli's bed, watching TV, he throws up. And then we understandthe agony inside of Pixote, the pain that is unbearable because he lacks theexperience and even the words to deal with it. Advertisement Theclosing scenes are powerful, sad and eventually heartless. They show withoutcompromise the depth of Pixote's need and the totality of his loneliness. Muchdepends on the character of Sueli, who in the second half of the movie isreally the dominant presence (Pixote throughout most of the movie is as muchobserver as participant). Thestreets have given Sueli a hardness and coldness that close her off from realemotion, even though as an experienced prostitute she can fake it -- sometimeswith clients, but more often in her own life, as if she's trying to deceiveherself. She has a remarkable scene, late one night when she should be intorment but gets drunk and then dances in the headlights of a stolen car,remembering that she was truly happy when she was a strip-tease performer. Thencomes her last scene with Pixote, which is so sorrowful and cruel it is barelywatchable. He is still, after everything, a little boy. Sueli has recentlyperformed an abortion on herself (she explains it in cruel detail to Pixote),but now, just for a moment, she imagines a life in which she will return to hertown and family, and Pixote will be like her son. Pixote turns to her breast,not in a sexual way, but in need, and we see the child who has always hungeredfor a mother he never had. Itis a hushed, sacred moment, and in another film, it would be the last shot. Asimilar scene concludes John Steinbeck'sTheGrapes of Wrath-- the novel,not the movie. But then Sueli hardens, and all the anger of her pitiful lifefocuses on Pixote. At this point the film fits the classical definition oftragedy, which requires the death of a hero. But Pixote is not a hero; his lifehas been a half-understood reaction to events. And he doesn't die, except inhis heart and soul. Babenco,born in 1946, has been one of Brazil's most successful directors."Pixote" was his first great accomplishment, and in 1985, he made"Kiss of the Spider Woman," with its best actor Oscar for WilliamHurt and a nomination for Babenco. Then came two big-budget American films withmixed receptions, "Ironweed" (1987), withJack Nicholsonand MerylStreep, and "At Play In The Fields Of The Lord" (1991). In 2003 hereturned to the homeless and helpless of Brazil with "Carandiru," setin the most notorious prison in Brazil and once again showing transvestites andthieves forming their own society in opposition to the corruption of thesystem. Advertisement But"Pixote" stands alone in his work, a rough, unblinking look at livesno human being should be required to lead. And the eyes of Fernando Ramos daSilva, his doomed young actor, regard us from the screen not in hurt, not inaccusation, not in regret -- but simply in acceptance of a desolate dailyreality."Pixote" is available on DVD. See also Ebert's"Great Movie" essays on the Italian neo-realist classics "TheBicycle Thief" and "Nights of Cabiria" atwww.suntimes.com/ebert/greatmovies/.