Eventually the veterans in the rifle squad stop bothering tolearn the names of the new kids who arrive to bring them up to strength. Theyget killed so quickly, it's not worth the trouble. But the sergeant and four ofhis men make it all the way through the war, or almost, anyway -- from NorthAfrica to Sicily to Omaha Beach on D-Day to Belgium and finally to Germany andthe liberation of a death camp. Isit unlikely these five would be survivors? Not to Sam Fuller, who wrote anddirected "The Big Red One" (1980), based on his own combat memories."I wanted to do the story of a survivor," he told me when the moviepremiered at Cannes, "because all war stories are told by survivors." Advertisement Fullerwas a cigar-chomping, tough-talking, wiry little guy who started out as ateenage New York crime reporter, lying about his age to get the job. He wrotepulp novels, he talked tough, he fought all the way through the war, and hecarried around memories of the First Infantry Division, the "Big RedOne." He made a lot of other movies first, hard-boiled war movies like"Steel Helmet" and "Fixed Bayonets" (both 1951), noirclassics like "Pickup on South Street' (1953) and cult B pictures like"Shock Corridor" (1963) and "The Naked Kiss" (1964). Finallyhe got his chance at his dream project. He had a limited budget, $4 million,but he shot and shot and shot, because like all newspapermen he couldn't bearto waste a good story. Yes, the movie is episodic. War is episodic. He said hecouldn't stand war pictures that had a story arc where everything led up to abig scene. In the real war, you lived in the present. There was no connectionbetween what happened to you last week and what was happening today, becauseyou had no direction over your life and neither did anyone else. Fuller'soriginal cut of the film came to 270 minutes. It was cut to 113 minutes, whichbroke his heart, but what was left worked well enough that he was proud of it.He talked about restoring his original version, but he died in 1997 withoutgetting that done. Now the film critic Richard Schickel has overseen areconstruction that brings the film up to 158 minutes, and it reveals arichness and pacing missing in the earlier version; one suspects that the270-minute version was a rough cut even Fuller would have trimmed. The restored"Big Red One" is able to suggest the scope and duration of the war,the way it's one damned thing after another, the distances traveled, thepile-up of experiences that are numbing most of the time but occasionallyproduce an episode as perfect as a short story. Advertisement Fullercenters everything on the sergeant, played byLee Marvinwith the rock-solidauthority of a man who had seen action as a Marine in the Pacific, and calledhis other big war movie, "The Dirty Dozen," a "dummymoneymaker." Fuller always wanted Marvin for the role. A studio insistedonJohn Wayne, but Fuller said he'd rather not make the picture. He wascorrect. This is Marvin's picture, and he dominates it not with heroics andspeechmaking but with competence, patience, realism, and a certain tendersadness. There's a scene where a soldier is shot in the groin, and the sergeantfinds something in the mud and tosses it away: "That was just one of yourballs, Smitty. That's why they give you two." Thelong-lasting squad members are Zab (Robert Carradine), a cigar-chewing pulpwriter who is obviously playing Fuller; Griff (Mark Hamill), who doesn't likekilling but has a change of heart; Vinci (Bobby DiCicco) and Johnson (KellyWard). There's a scene where one of the anonymous new replacements is reading apaperback titledThe DarkDeadline,and Zab tries totell him he wrote the book. The kid doesn't grasp the concept. He's dead beforehe finishes the book. Thefilm starts with the horror of World War I, as a shell-shocked Army horse runsmaddened across a battlefield. That's where we meet Marvin's character for thefirst time. He apparently becomes a lifer in the Army, is promoted to sergeant,leads these kids through the next war. We learn nothing about him -- not ifhe's married, not if he has a family, not even his name. In another sense, welearn everything about him. Fuller and Marvin never give the sergeant thoseobligatory campfire speeches describing his history and beliefs, and insteaddevelop the character by showing how he behaves at important moments. He capturesa German sniper, for example, and finds out the gunman is only a kid fromHitler's desperate last-ditch "children's army." The sergeant wouldhave routinely shot another sniper. This one, he spanks. Thereare details Fuller must have remembered from the time, such as the landing inAfrica at a position defended by soldiers from the Nazi-sympathizing Vichygovernment of France. "If you're Vichy, fight us," the Americansshout over loud-speakers. "If you're Frenchmen, join us." The scenedraws a class distinction between officers and men in the French lines. Thereis no distinction between the American sergeant and his men. Someepisodes sound like something Fuller would tell you over a beer. Like the timethe squad hides in a cave and one German after another appears in the opening-- some to pee, others to have a look. The Americans pick them off one by one.They're in desperate danger themselves, but the cave becomes their shootinggallery. And there's a scene where they deliver a baby in a German tank they'vejust captured; in his heartfelt review of the film, Charles Taylor of Salon.comnotices "one genuinely surreal detail: hanging belts of ammunition used asstirrups, the bullets pointed at the pregnant woman's belly." Advertisement Thereis a moment during the landing at Omaha Beach that no one forgets after seeingthe film. A soldier's arm has been torn off, and sticks in the sand, awrist-watch still in place. From time to time, Fuller cuts back to the watch;we can see how much time has passed.Steven Spielberg, who undoubtedly screened"The Big Red One" while preparing "Saving Private Ryan," isnot a director who often needs to feel envy, but he must have coveted thatshot. Whatwe understand, finally, is that the entire war comes down to these five men, becauseit istheirentire war. Nobody wades ashore with10,000 men. They wade ashore all by themselves. By limiting the scope of theaction, Fuller was able to make the movie look completely convincing on hislimited budget, using Ireland for the scenes set in Belgium and Israel for allthe other scenes. We see tanks and planes and Germans and landing craft when weneed to, but the focus is on the faces of the squad members. Talkingwith Fuller, I quoted Truffaut's dictum that all war movies are pro-war, becauseno matter what their "message" is, they make the action lookexciting. Fullersnorted. "Pro or anti, what the hell difference does it make to the guywho gets his ass shot off? The movie is very simple. It's a series of combatexperiences, and the times of waiting in between. Lee Marvin plays a carpenterof death. The sergeants of this world have been dealing death to young men for10,000 years. He's a symbol of all those years and all those sergeants, nomatter what their names were or what they called their rank in other languages.That's why he has no name in the movie. "Themovie deals with death in a way that might be unfamiliar to people who knownothing of war except what they learned in war movies. I believe that feardoesn't delay death, and so it is fruitless. A guy is hit. So, he's hit. That'sthat. I don't cry because that guy over there got hit. I cry because I'm gonnaget hit next. All that phony heroism is a bunch of baloney when they'reshooting at you. But you have to be honest with a corpse, and that is theemotion that the movie shows rubbing off on four young men." Yes,it does. And that's why Griff, the squad member who doesn't like killing, pumps20 rounds into a Nazi in one of the final scenes. He is a killer, shooting at amurderer.Ebert talks with     directorFuller at Cannes in 1980. Advertisement