It has always been a question whether "The Phantom of theOpera" (1925) is a great film, or only a great spectacle. Carl Sandburg,one of the original reviewers, underwent a change of heart between his firstChicago Daily News review (he waited for the Phantom's unmasking "terriblyfascinated, aching with suspense") and a reconsideration written a monthlater ("strictly among the novelties of the season"). It was not, headded on the level of "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari" or"Greed," mentioning two of the greatest films of all time. Advertisement Hewas right about that, and could have added the greatest of all silent horrorfilms, Murnau's "Nosferatu" (1922), whose vampire may have influencedLon Chaney's performance as the Phantom. But as an exercise in luridsensationalism, straining against technical limitations in its eagerness tooverwhelm, the first of the many Phantom films has a creepy, undeniable power. Thestory is simply told -- too simply, perhaps, so that all of the adaptations,including the famousAndrew Lloyd Webbermusical, have been much ado aboutrelatively little. In the cellars of the Paris Opera House lives a disfiguredmasked man who becomes obsessed with the young singer Christine. He commandsthe management to give her leading roles, and when they refuse, he exacts aterrible revenge, causing a great chandelier to crash down on the audience. Christine'slover, a pallid nonentity, is little competition for her fascination with thePhantom, until she realizes with horror that the creature wants her to dwell inhis mad subterranean world. She unmasks him, is repelled by his hideousdisfigurement, flees to the surface and her lover, and is followed by a Phantomseeking violent revenge. There is no room for psychological subtlety here. Itis the idea of the Phantom, really, that fascinates us: the idea of a cruellymistreated man going mad in self-imposed exile in the very cellars, dungeonsand torture chambers where he was, apparently, disfigured in the first place.His obsession with Christine reflects his desire to win back some joy from aworld that has mistreated him. Leroux and his adapters have placed this sadcreature in a bizarre subterranean space that has inspired generations of setdesigners. There are five levels of cellars beneath the opera, one descendingbeneath another in an expressionist series of staircases, ramps, trapdoors, anda Styxian river that the Phantom crosses in a gondola. The Phantom hasfurnished his lair with grotesque fittings: He sleeps in a coffin and providesa bed for Christine in the shape of a whale boat. Remote controls give himwarnings when anyone approaches and allow him to roast or drown his enemies. ToChristine, he offers wealth, luxury and opera stardom, and she is in no peril"as long as you do not touch the mask" -- oh, and she must love him,or at least allow him to possess her (although his precise sexual plans areleft undefined). Perhaps warned by the fate of the hero in her currentproduction of "Faust," she refuses this bargain, although for anengaged woman, she allows herself to be dangerously tempted. Aftertaking over the leading role from an ominously ill prima donna, she follows amysterious voice, opens a secret door behind the mirror in her dressing room,descends through forbidding cellars, is taken semi-conscious by horseback andgondola deeper into the labyrinth and sees the coffin where he sleeps. At thispoint, her sudden cry of "You -- you are the Phantom!" inspired me towrite in my notes: "Duh!" Advertisement Herlover, the Viscount Raoul de Chagny, is likewise not a swift study. After thePhantom has presumably claimed dozens of victims with the falling chandelierand threatened Christine with death if she sees him again, Raoul agrees to meether at the Masked Ball. This is held in the Opera House on the very next night,with the chandelier miraculously repaired and no mourning period, apparently,for the dozens of crushed and maimed. Christine tells Raoul the Phantom willmurder them if they are seen together, but then, when a gaunt and spectralfigure in red stalks imperiously into the grand hall, Raoul unmasks himself,which is, if you ask me, asking for trouble. Christinedetermines to sing her role one more time, after which Raoul will have acarriage waiting by the stage door to spirit them safely away to England. Thisplan is too optimistic, as the Phantom snatches Christine from her dressingroom, and the two are pursued into the bowels of Paris by Raoul and InspectorLedoux -- and, in a separate pursuit, by the vengeful stagehand Buquet (whosebrother the Phantom murdered), leading a mob of torch-carrying rabble. Thehapless Raoul and Ledoux are lured into a chamber where the Phantom can roastthem to death, and when they escape through a trapdoor, it leads to a chamberwhere they can be drowned. Allof this is fairly ridiculous, and yet, and yet, the story exerts a certainmacabre fascination. The characters of Christine and Raoul, played by MaryPhilbin and Norman Kerry, essentially function as puppets of the plot. But thePhantom is invested by the intense and inventive Lon Chaney with a horror andpoignancy that is almost entirely created with body language. More of his faceis covered than in modern versions (a little gauze curtain flutters in front ofhis mouth), but look at the way his hand moves as he gestures toward the coffinas the titles announce "That is where I sleep." It is a languorousmovement that conveys great weary sadness. Advertisement ThePhantom's unmasking was one of the most famous moments in silent film. He isseated at his organ. "Now, when he is intent on the music," Sandburgwrote, "she comes closer, closer, her fingers steal towards the ribbonthat fastens the mask. Her fingers give one final twitch -- and there youare!" There you are, all right, as Chaney, "the Man of 1,000Faces" and a master of makeup, unveils a defacement more grotesque than inany later version, his mouth a gaping cavern, his nose a void, his eyes widelystaring: "Feast your eyes, glut your soul, on my accursed ugliness!" Theother famous scene involves the falling chandelier, which became thecenterpiece of the Webber musical and functions the same way in JoelSchumacher's 2004 film version. In the original film, it is curiouslyunderplayed; it falls in impressive majesty, to be sure, but its results arehard to measure. Surely there are mangled bodies beneath it, but the moviestays its distance and then hurries on. Muchmore impressive is the Masked Ball sequence and its sequel on the roof of theopera house. The filmmakers (director Rupert Julien, replaced by EdwardSedgwick and assisted by Chaney) use primitive color techniques to saturate theball with brilliant scarlets and less obtrusive greens. Many scenes throughoutthe film are tinted, which was common enough in silent days, but the MaskedBall is a primitive form of Technicolor, in which the Phantom's great red cloaksweeps through the air like a carrion bird that enfolds him. Andon the roof, as Raoul and Christine plot, he hovers unseen above them on theside of a statue, the red garment billowing ominously. Chaney's movements inall of these scenes are filled with heedless bravado, and yet when he pauses,when he listens, when the reasons for his jealousy are confirmed, he conveyshis suffering. Ina strange way, the very artificiality of the color adds to its effect. True,accurate and realistic color is simply ... color. But this form of color, whichseems imposed on the material, functions as a passionate impasto, a blood-redoverlay. We can sense the film straining to overwhelm us. The various scores (Ilistened to the music by the great composer for silent filmCarl Davis) swoopand weep and shriek and fall into ominous prefigurings, and the wholeenterprise embraces the spirit of grand guignol. Advertisement "ThePhantom of the Opera" is not a great film if you are concerned with artand subtlety, depth and message; "Nosferatu" is a world beyond it.But in its fevered melodrama and images of cadaverous romance, it finds a kindof show-biz majesty. And it has two elements of genius: It creates beneath theopera one of the most grotesque places in the cinema, and Chaney's performancetransforms an absurd character into a haunting one.The new film version of Andrew Lloyd Webber's "The Phantomof the Opera" opens nationally on Wednesday. See also the Great Moviereviews of "Nosferatu," "     The Man Who Laughs    ," "TheFall of the House of Usher" and "Orpheus".