"It is a relentless excursion into style," Josef vonSternberg said of his "The Scarlet Empress" (1934). That's putting itmildly. Here is a film so crammed with style, so surrounded by it and weighteddown with it, that the actors peer out from the display like children in a toystore. The film tells the story of Catherine the Great as a bizarre visual extravaganza,combining twisted sexuality and bold bawdy humor as ifMel Brookshadcollaborated with the Marquis de Sade. Thefilm is the sixth of seven collaborations between von Sternberg and MarleneDietrich, and the strangest. It juxtaposes a Russia of gigantic grotesquegargoyles and overdressed towering Hussars with the giggling imbecility of theGrand Duke Peter and lingering fetishistic closeups of Dietrich's cold, eroticface. It provides Peter's domineering mother, the Empress Elizabeth, with themanners of a fishwife, and paints Catherine as a sexual adventuress who isassigned to provide Peter with a male heir and produces a child who is a maleheir, right enough, but not Peter's. Advertisement Themovie was released in 1934, just as the Hays Office began to police Hollywoodfilms for morals violations. Von Sternberg must have had a friend on the force;he gets away with murder. Although the movie wisely sidesteps the famous legendof the empress' sub-equestrian death, a title does inform us, in sublimeunderstatement, "Catherine coolly added the army to her list ofconquests." Wesee her inspecting the troops with particular attention to their netherregions, and when she meets the handsome Captain Orloff she says she's"heard" of him and asks what his job is. "I'm in charge of thenight watch, your majesty." Dietrich's reply is a sensuous purr: "Itmust be ... cold ... at night ..." To be sure we get the point, we seePeter playing with toy soldiers, and then it's observed of Catherine,"she's always picking up the archduke's soldiers." VonSternberg (1894-1969) was one of the true Hollywood characters, sometimes agreat director, always a great show. He dressed in costumes appropriate to thefilms he was directing, made his assistants remove their wristwatches becausehe could hear the ticking, and calmly claimed he did it all himself: direction,photography, lighting, sets, costumes, props, the works. "It takes me alot of time," he sighed. Of course he had the usual craft professionalsassigned to all of those jobs, but he certainly controlled the look of hisfilms, and in "The Scarlet Empress" he compensates for the lack of avast canvas by filling a small one to bursting. Hisinteriors suggest the Russian imperial household without showing us much morethan a throne, some corridors, a dining room, a grand staircase and somebedrooms. We're reminded of howOrson Wellescreated Kane's Xanadu out ofshadows, props, tricks and mirrors. The fixtures in Sternberg's rooms areboldly overscale; rough stone sculptures of monstrous gargoyles tower over thecharacters, surround them, leer at them. The doors are so heavy it takes twomen or six women to swing them open. And the fur costumes of the wicked CountAlexei (John Lodge) look so heavy, it's a good thing he's over 6 feet tall andstrong enough to wear them. Advertisement Alexeiis the one who journeys to the hinterlands to fetch the beautiful "youngprincess," then called Sofia Frederica, who has been commanded to becomePeter's bride. Sofia has already had quite a childhood; her doctor was also thehangman, and her bedtime stories involved tortures of the rack and the stake.In a montage imagining these grisly agonies, a prisoner is hung upside down andused as the clapper for a bell, and that image dissolves into Sofia swingingback and forth at play. No sooner do Alexei and Sofia meet than she looks athim with long fascination, in a closeup where she takes forever to close adoor. The next day, Alexei boldly kisses her. "Why did you do that?"she asks. "Because I've fallen in love with you, and now you must punishme," he says, promptly handing her a whip as if the kiss was the price hehad to pay for his reward. Later, on their long journey to the palace, hermother sees them together at a roadside inn, Sofia again holding his whip."What are you two doing down there?" she asks. "Never mind; Idon't want to know." Arrivingat the court, Sofia and her mother are greeted by Empress Elizabeth (LouiseDressler, with a no-nonsense Midwestern American accent). A court doctorimmediately plunges under her hoop skirt to make sure all is in order for aroyal pregnancy. Elizabeth renames her Catherine, "a good Russianname," and awards her the Order of St. Catherine: "May you wear it ingood health. And be careful it doesn't scratch you." Soonher betrothed Peter the Great (Sam Jaffe) enters, a grinning, simperingsimpleton dismissed by his mother as a "half-wit." His principalroyal duty is to produce an heir, something he is apparently unequipped to do,as von Sternberg hints in a scene where Peter is so desperate for a glimpse of hiswife that he drills a spy hole through the eye of a mosaic in his mother'sbedroom, which I think is a Freudian trifecta. Dietrichexists surrounded but untouched by this madness, as a locus of carnalinsinuations. She rarely engages the other actors physically; von Sternberglikes to isolate her in fetishistic compositions of lace, feathers, fur andfire (notice the shot in which she gazes steadily at Alexei from behind herveil; the candle flame a few inches from her mouth trembles as she begins to breathemore heavily). One dress seems made of black-tipped white fur spikes, whichundulate when she moves, like a dreamy underwater porcupine. There is somethingboth contented and demented in her narcissism; perfectly made up andexquisitely lighted, she poses for us in von Sternberg's closeups, regarding uswith contemptuous passivity while we commit sins of thought by contemplatingsins of deed. Advertisement Someof her erotic moments are more than passing strange. She and Alexei findthemselves in a stable, where she plunges into the hay, then rights herself andputs a straw in her mouth sideways. He takes it away. She puts another straw inher mouth sideways. He also takes that away. She goes through five sidewaysstraws and five Alexei removals. I have no idea what obscure communication istaking place here, but there's a payoff later in the film when, to taunt him,she boldly inserts a straw in her mouth not sideways but stem first, and twirlsit with her tongue. Yowza! Asdrama, "The Scarlet Empress" makes no sense, nor does it attempt to.This is not a resource for history class. Its primary subject is vonSternberg's erotic obsession with Dietrich, whom he objectified in a series ofmovies ("The Blue Angel," "Morocco," "Dishonored,""Shanghai Express," "Blonde Venus," "The ScarletEmpress" and "The Devil is a Woman") that made her face one ofthe immortal icons of the cinema. Whether she could act was beside the pointfor him; it would have been a distraction. VonSternberg has a slapdash way with some scenes, as if impatient when hisattention is called away from Dietrich. Notice his several crowd scenes, inwhich peasants materialize on demand, mill about in frenzied turmoil, and arethen forgotten. There is almost no sense of a real society outside the palace walls,and little enough within, where some of the arrangements would be at home in aMarx Brothers movie. For the long winter journey to the palace, for example,Count Alexei supplies piles of furs for Catherine, and then dismisses hermother with a hot water bottle. Advertisement WhenDietrich is onscreen, however, nothing is too good for her; not only do vonSternberg's lighting and cinematography make her the center and subject ofevery scene, but he devises extraordinary moments for as, as when, clad in afur uniform and cape, with an improbable sable military hat, she mounts a horseand leads a cavalry charge up the grand staircase. "It took more than oneman to change my name to Shanghai Lily," she says in "ShanghaiExpress," but it only took von Sternberg to make herMarlene Dietrich.