The opening credits of Vincente Minnelli's "The BandWagon" play over a top hat and cane, which would remind us ofFred Astaireeven if he weren't the star of the movie. Then we join an auction of moviememorabilia. The top hat and cane don't sell, even when the auctioneer pleads,"50 cents, anyone?" They belonged to a has-been hoofer named TonyHunter, and now we see him, played by Astaire, on a train to New York City.Maybe he can make a comeback on Broadway. From the way he sings "ByMyself," he doesn't seem hopeful. Advertisement "TheBand Wagon" (1953) came only a year after the same writers,Betty ComdenandAdolph Green, wrote "Singin' in the Rain." Both are greatbackstage musicals, one about Hollywood, the other about Broadway, one starringGene Kelly, the other Fred Astaire. "Singin' in the Rain" is acomedy, but "The Band Wagon" has a note of melancholy along with itssmiles, a sadness always present among Broadway veterans, who have seen morefailure than success, who know the show always closes and that the backstagefamily breaks up and returns to the limbo of auditions and out-of-town tryouts. Themovie takes a would-be musical through all the stages of writing, casting,production, choreography, rehearsals, failure on the road and eventual triumphon Broadway. It's so happily aware of its genre that we actually do hearmention of renting a barn and putting on a show. But it draws on experiencewith the actual working conditions of Broadway professionals, just as "Singin'in the Rain" knew a lot about how movies are made. "Singin' in theRain" was the work of a fresh newcomer (Stanley Donenwas 28 when hedirected it). "The Band Wagon" is informed by a Minnelli who, at 50,had logged a long tour of duty in show biz, not least as the husband of thecomplicatedJudy Garland. WhenAstaire made "The Band Wagon," he was 54 years old but hardly washedup. In recent years, he had made "Easter Parade" and "RoyalWedding," and his future held "Funny Face" and "SilkStockings." But in the movie as in life, he is insecure about his gifts;"Fred rehearsed until he drove you crazy," remembers co-star NanetteFabray, and he was uneasy about co-starring withCyd Charisse. "She'srather tall, isn't she?" he worries in the movie, and Fabray assures him,"It's a stage illusion." Advertisement Itwasn't. Charisse was fully as tall as Astaire, taller with heels, and she hadclassical dance training; Astaire's Tony Hunter complains about "thislittle ballerina's snide insinuation that I'm only a hoofer." Realinsecurities and rivalries were right beneath the surface of the fictional onescreated by Comden and Green, and real personalities are not far offscreen; theyeven based the writers Lily and Lester Marton on themselves (Minnelli cast themasOscar Levant, who looked like Green, and Fabray, who had Comden's spirit). TheAstaire and Charisse characters are brought together by Jeffrey Cordova (JackBuchanan), a director-producer-star with artistic pretensions, who thinks thelively little musical by the Martons should be reworked as a version of"Faust." The Cordova character is said to be inspired byJose Ferrer,who at the time was starring in one Broadway show and producing three others,but in the ego and the big plans there's also an echo ofOrson Welles. Buchanan,an actor from Scotland who kids his own patrician stage presence, has fun witha character who lacks any practical knowledge about what a production canafford and what an audience will endure. (One of the movie's charms is themoment when he concedes he is wrong and Astaire is right, and they do asoft-shoe to "I Guess I'll Have to Change My Plan.") Astaireand Charisse get into a furious fight the first time they meet, and then, inthe scene where the movie's magic first begins to work, they make up wordlesslyin the "Dancing in the Dark" sequence under a full moon in CentralPark. (The critic Douglas Pratt recommends watching this scene with the audioturned off: "It is haunting.") Here and throughout the movie,Charisse is a sexy and capable partner for Astaire, who said somewhat enigmatically,“When you dance with her, you stay danced with.” Advertisement Theoverblown Faustian musical is a flop in New Haven; a stagehand observes,"You've got more scenery in this show than there is in YellowstoneNational Park." As the depressed actors and dancers gather in a hotelsuite, they cheer themselves with the "I Love Louisa" musical number,"but only for the time it takes them to sing and dance," writes thecritic Joe McElhaney. "The moment the song is finished everyone goes intoa depressed slump." Levantin fact looks like he's depressed most of the time. A real-life hypochondriacwhose character recites a list of complaints early in the movie, Levant was afriend and good-luck mascot forArthur Freed, the key producer during MGM'sgolden age. That's how he got so many good supporting roles (as in "AnAmerican in Paris"), despite often looking grumpy and exhausted."Oscar needed someone to yell at," Fabray remembers in an interviewon the DVD. When he blew a line, he'd blame it on somebody -- usually pickingon Fabray, who was appearing in her first movie. After she told him to go tohell, she says, he backed off. Allof the interviews with the surviving cast members suggest the film was anunhappy shoot, although they don't quite say why. Minnelli's offstage marriageproblems with Garland may have been one reason, Astaire's ambivalence aboutCharisse might have been another, Levant's daily appearance represented what heliked to call "a pharmaceutical miracle," and Buchanan was undergoingpainful dental surgery. Still, a great musical emerged from the shambles, justas it does in the story. Despitethe elegance of "Dancing in the Dark" and the long "GirlHunt" ballet sequence toward the end (with Astaire as a private eye andCharisse a slinky dame in red), my favorite musical number is an early one,"Shine on Your Shoes."Liza Minnelli, then 7, followed her fatheraround during the filming, and remembers him scouting Penn Station for ideasabout the soundstage sets. Minnellisaw Leroy Daniels, a real shoeshine man who sang and danced as he worked, andthat not only inspired the number, but got Daniels a trip to Hollywood and ascene where he co-stars with Astaire. He's a gifted performer, his timing asprecise as Astaire's, and perhaps because he's the real thing, we sense afreshness and joy. Note, too, Astaire's casual strength when he lifts himselfon the arms of the chair so he can kick in mid-air. Mostof the scene's charm is because of Astaire and Daniels, but some, too, wascontributed by Minnelli. McElhaney recommends watching the "Shine on YourShoes" number, but not focusing on Astaire and Daniels: "Instead,only take note of the direction of the extras; watch it again, and only notethe function of the decor and the camera movements; then watch it one final timeputting all of these elements together." What that exercise wouldillustrate is that for Minnelli, the whole screen was always in play, not justthe foreground and the stars. Advertisement Manyof the movie’s songs, by Arthur Schwartz and Howard Deitz, already existed; MGMin those days didn’t simply recycle Broadway hits but created new musicals fromscratch, often using songs it already owned. That works here because, afterdumping the Faustian musical, the performers decide to put on a revue. One songwritten new for the movie would become a touchstone: Deitz and Schwartz’s“That’s Entertainment,” which celebrates show business in a way as joyous butnot as zany as Donald O’Connor’s “Make ‘em Laugh” in “Singin’ in the Rain.” Oneof their older songs that makes an unconvincing reappearance is “LouisianaHayride,” originally written in 1932; although in a revue anything, so tospeak, goes, the hayride seems like a stretch. Anothermusical sequence, the bizarre "Triplets," shows Astaire, Fabray andBuchanan all apparently midgets dressed as babies, sliding down from their highchairs and dancing. Since we see their feet hit the floor and special effectsseem impossible, how did they do it? By balancing on artificial legs strappedto their knees, Fabray reports; they fell dozens of times before getting itright, and relied on pain-killers. Allof these backstage details seem like a distraction from the magic of "TheBand Wagon," but part of the film's appeal comes from our sense that whatwe see is not far removed from the actual process of making the movie. It'sentertainment, all right, but it's also hard work, and Astaire chain-smokes allthe way through it. "I don't think a dancer should smoke," Charissetells him early in the film, but by the end, she's bumming a cigarette.