The greatest master of horror in the silent era was a cheerfulman, much loved by his collaborators, even though they might lose consciousnessfrom time to time while enveloped in clouds of steam or surrounded by tonguesof flame. F.W. Murnau (1888-1931) made two of the greatest films of thesupernatural, "Nosferatu" (1922) and "Faust" (1926), bothvoted among the best horror films of all time on the Internet Movie Database:"Faust" surprisingly in fourth place, just ahead of "TheShining," "Jaws" and "Alien." Advertisement Murnau had a bold visual imagination, distinctive even duringthe era of German Expressionism with its skewed perspectives and twisted roomsand stairs. He painted with light and shadow, sometimes complaining to hisloyal cameraman, Carl Hoffmann, that he could see too much -- that all shouldbe obscured except the focus of a scene. "Faust," with its supernatural vistas of heaven andhell, is particularly distinctive in the way it uses the whole canvas. Considerthe startling early shot of Mephisto, his dark wings obscuring the sky as hehovers above a little village that huddles in the lower right corner. Murnautreated the screen as if it offered a larger space than his contemporariesimagined; long before deep focus, he was creating double-exposures like shotsin "Faust" where a crowd of villagers in the foreground is echoed byfaraway crowds in the upper corners. His screen encompassed great breadth and depth, so that whenMephisto takes Faust on a flight through the sky, we really do seem to see the earthunreeling beneath them: towns and farms, mountains and rivers. Murnau used amodel of the landscape, of course; as his art director, Robert Herlth,remembered, "there were pines and larches made of reeds and rushes,glass-wool clouds, cascades, fields of real turf carefully stuck on plaster.When Murnau saw us at work, he bent his great height to help us make our littlerocks and trees." Like all silent-film directors, Murnau was comfortable withspecial effects that were obviously artificial. The town beneath the wings ofthe dark angel is clearly a model, and when characters climb a steep street,there is no attempt to make the sharply angled buildings and rooflines behindthem seem real. Such effects, paradoxically, can be more effective than more realisticones; I sometimes feel, in this age of expert CGI, that I am being shown toomuch -- that technique is pushing aside artistry and imagination. The world of"Faust" is never intended to define a physical universe, but is alandscape of nightmares. When the elderly Faust is magically converted byMephisto into a young man, there is a slight awkwardness in the way one imageis replaced by another, and oddly enough that's creepier and more striking thana smooth modern morph. Advertisement Murnau and his contemporaries were inventing their techniqueswhile they were using them. Herlth recalled that while Murnau was filming anopening scene of an archangel enveloped by clouds, the director "was socaught up in the pleasure of doing it that he forgot all about time. The steamhad to keep on billowing through the beams of light until the archangel --Werner Fuetterer -- was so exhausted he could no longer lift his sword. WhenMurnau realized what had happened, he shook his head and laughed at himself,then gave everyone a break." Yes, but he was entranced again in the scene where Camilla Horn,playing the beautiful Gretchen, "had to spend hours tied to the stake,with flames leaping round her from 20 lykopodium burners. When she fainted, shewas not acting." And the famousEmil Jannings, who played the doorman inMurnau's "Last Laugh" and is Mephisto here, stood for hours abovethree powerful fans which blew clouds of soot to make his cloak billow 12 feetabove his head. All of these facts I take from the bookMurnau,by the invaluable critic Lotte Eisner,who never met Murnau but talked to his collaborators after his death in 1931,at 43, in a traffic accident. "Faust," the story of a man who sells his soul to thedevil, was long a European legend before Goethe spent 50 years writing atwo-volume version of the myth. Because Goethe was beloved by the Germans, someaudiences for Murnau's film were outraged by the liberties he took with thestory, not least in shaky central episodes where Faust falls in love withGretchen, demands to be made young again, and then woos her while Mephistodistracts her Aunt Marthe with his own romantic designs. Somehow it diminishesMephisto to assign him carnal desires -- particularly since, as an angel, hepresumably lacked all inclination and equipment for such pursuits. Advertisement The film's greatness resides in its majestic opening scenes andits horrifying conclusion. Most viewers dislike the courtship between Gretchenand young Faust, although it is essential to set up her eventual fate -- anending so bleak that there is not much consolation when the archangel informsMephisto that "Love" is stronger than all the powers of darkness.Tell that to Gretchen, burning at the stake, and Faust, transformed back intoan old man and throwing himself into the flames at her feet to beg forgiveness. Some of the early scenes remind us of "Nosferatu" intheir evocation of a terrified population. Faust (played young and old by GostaEkman) is seen as a bearded scholar, surrounded by his books, until the plaguestrikes the land. From his window, he sees hooded figures carrying corpses to acharnel-pit; he is called to the bedside of a dying woman, but all of hiswisdom and art are helpless to save her, and after praying to God, he istempted to invoke Mephisto. There is true horror as he burns his books andstands within a ring of fire to call down the devil; when he finds he has thepower to cure dying villagers, he thinks he has made a good bargain, but soonhis power intoxicates him. Mephisto offers him the beautiful Duchess of Parma; he prefersthe sweet and innocent Gretchen, and demands the gift of youth so that he canwoo her. That way tragedy lies. Mephisto is crafty in his techniques; at firsthe offers Faust a 24-hour trial of satanic powers, no strings attached, butsoon Faust is ready to sign anything to win poor Gretchen. So much for theplague victims. Silent films like this deal more in broad concepts than in thesubtleties of personality. Like Greek myth and comic books, they presentcharacters clearly defined by their strengths and weaknesses. There's no smalltalk. Ekman creates an elderly Faust in anguish over his inability to cureplague victims and too proud to admit defeat. The young Faust is led astray bythe stirrings in his loins, and the function of Gretchen, I am afraid, is to bethe innocent victim of his lust; she wanders through a blizzard with herinnocent infant and burns at the stake, all because of her love for theunworthy Faust. Advertisement It's worth mentioning that William Dieterle, who plays Gretchen'sbrother Valentin, fled Hitler, came to Hollywood and had a long career as adirector, distinguished by "The Devil and Daniel Webster" (1941),itself a version of the Faust legend. Murnau died before he was able to express himself fully in thesound era, where there is no telling what he might have accomplished; soonafter he moved to America, his "Sunrise" (1927) shared the firstAcademy Award for best picture. In death, he is surrounded by legend, not leastin E. Elias Merhige's strange film "Shadow of the Vampire" (2000),whereJohn Malkovichplays the director as a man whose star,Max Schreck(Willem Dafoe), is in fact a vampire. Murnau promises Schreck that he can eatthe leading lady as his payment, but the vampire grows hungry and devours thecinematographer, and in desperation, Murnau muses, "I do not think we needthe writer." The movie is not, by the way, a comedy, but feeds on the realhorror that Murnau created. He was an original, and no one else ever made filmsthat looked like his. They are strange and haunted; you reflect that if suchsatanic dealings were possible, they would probably look very much like this.Great Movie reviews of "Sunrise" and both theMurnau and Herzog versions of "Nosferatu" are online atrogerbert.com.