There is an astonishing sequence in Robert J. Flaherty's"Nanook of the North" (1922) in which his hero, the Inuit hunterNanook, hunts a seal. Flaherty shows the most exciting passage in one unbrokenshot. Nanook knows that seals must breathe every 20 minutes, and keep an airhole open for themselves in the ice of the Arctic winter. He finds such a hole,barely big enough to be seen and is poised motionless above it with his harpoonuntil a seal rises to breathe. Then he strikes and holds onto the line as theseal plunges to escape. Advertisement There is a desperate tug of war. Nanook hauls the line 10 or 12feet out of the hole, and then is dragged back, sliding across the ice, andpulls again, and again. We can't see, but he must have the line tied to hisbody -- to lose would be to drown. He desperately signals for his fellow huntersto help him, and we see them running across the ice with their dogs as hestruggles to hold on. They arrive at last, and three or four of them pull onthe line. The seal prevails. Nanook uses his knife to enlarge the hole, and theseal at last is revealed and killed. The hunters immediately strip it of itsblubber and dine on its raw flesh. Therehas been some discussion among critics of a possible interruption in thefilming; we never see the seal actually being pulled up to the surface. Was thequarry shot with a gun that Flaherty did not want to show, because that wouldaffect the purity of his images of man against nature? Such questions are partof a decades-old debate about the methods of a man who has been called thefather of the documentary, whose films are masterpieces, and yet whoserealities were admittedly assisted. Seeing"Nanook of the North" a week ago at the Toronto Film Festival,magnificently projected in 35mm and accompanied by a live performance of a newmusical score, I did not much care about the purity of Flaherty's methods. Heshot his footage in 1920, when there were no rules for documentaries andprecious few documentaries, certainly none shot so far north that nothing growsexcept a little moss, and 300 Inuit could inhabit a space the size of England.(At about the same time, at the other pole, a photographer namedFrank Hurleywas filming Shackleton's expedition, which ended with his ship, the Endurance,broken by the ice, and the crew escaping to South America on a 700-mile journeyin an open boat, with not a life lost. That film is also on DVD.) Advertisement Weknow, because Flaherty was frank about it, that he recruited the cast for hisfilm. Nanook was chosen because he was the most famed of the hunters in thedistrict, but the two women playing his wives were not his wives and thechildren were not his children. Flaherty's first footage was of a walrus hunt,and he revealed that Nanook and his fellow hunters performed the hunt for thecamera. "Nanook" is notcinemaverite.And yet in a sense itis: The movie is an authentic documentary showing the creation of itself. Whathappens on the screen is real, no matter what happened behind it. Nanook reallyhas a seal on the other end of that line. Themovie shows Nanook during a few weeks in the life of his family. Countlessdetails fill in a way of life that was already dying. We see the hunterscreeping inch by inch upon a herd of slumbering walruses, and then Nanookspringing up and harpooning one, and then a fierce struggle in which the mateof the walrus joins the battle. Such scenes simplify Inuit life to its mostbasic reality: In this land the only food comes from other animals, which mustbe hunted and killed. Everything the family uses -- its food, fuel, clothingand tools -- comes in some way from those animals, except for the knives andperhaps harpoon points, which they obtain at a trading post. They are a luxury;before there were trading posts, there were already Inuit. Oneof the film's most fascinating scenes shows the construction of an igloo.Nanook and his friends carve big blocks of snow and stack them in a circle,carving new ones from the floor so that it sinks as the walls rise and curveinward to form a dome. Then he finds sheets of ice, cuts holes in the igloowalls, and inserts the ice to make windows. There is another igloo, a smallerone, for the dogs. And inside the big igloo, the tiniest igloo of all, forpuppies, which the big dogs would quickly eat. Advertisement Nanookhas a small son named Allee, and a baby, Rainbow, 4 months old; they travelinside the hoods of their mothers. There are scenes of unstudied grace and loveas his wives, Nyla and Cunayou, care for the children, the children play withthe puppies, and the whole family strips to crawl under their furs, which actas blankets for the night. There are also moments of hazard, as they are nearlylost in a sudden snowstorm, and times of great hunger and desperation. Theseare suggested in the film, but became real in the aftermath: Nanook, lost in astorm, died of starvation two years after Flaherty filmed him. Flaherty(1884-1951), born in Michigan, traveled in northern Canada with his father as ayoung man, then returned as a scout looking for iron ore. He took along acamera and shot some footage of Eskimos, which was destroyed by fire. Thatinspired him to return and shoot a proper film, financed by a French furtrading company. He took along a generator, developing equipment and aprojector; after filming the walrus hunt, he wrote: "Ilost no time in developing and printing the film. That walrus fight was thefirst film these Eskimo had ever seen and, in the language of the trade, it wasa 'knock-out.' The audience -- they thronged the post kitchen to the point ofsuffocation -- completely forgot the picture. To them the walrus was real andliving. The women and children in their high shrill voices joined with the menin shouting admonitions, warnings and advice to Nanook and his crew as thepicture unfolded on the screen. The fame of that picture spread through all thecountry. ... After this it did not take my Eskimo long to see the practicalside of films and ... from that time on, they were all with me." Thefilm is not technically sophisticated; how could it be, with one camera, nolights, freezing cold, and everyone equally at the mercy of nature? But it hasan authenticity that prevails over any complaints that some of the sequenceswere staged. If you stage a walrus hunt, it still involves hunting a walrus,and the walrus hasn't seen the script. What shines through is the humanity andoptimism of the Inuit. One of the film's titles describes them as"happy-go-lucky," and although this seems almost cruel, given theharsh terms of their survival, they do indeed seem absorbed by their lives andcontent in them, which is more than many of us can say. Advertisement Flahertywent on to make more sophisticated films, notably "Tabu" (1931), anuneasy collaboration with the great German filmmaker F.W. Murnau, who was moreinterested in story and style than documentation; "Man of Aran"(1934), about the hard lives of the Aran Islanders off the coast of Ireland;"Elephant Boy" (1937), starring Sabu in a fiction based on a Kiplingstory, and "Louisiana Story" (1948), in which a young bayou boywatches as an oil rig invades his unspoiled domain. The later films aresmoother and more conventionally beautiful, but "Nanook" stands alonein its stark regard for the courage and ingenuity of its heroes. Nanook is oneof the most vital and unforgettable human beings ever recorded on film.Note:The movie is availablein a Criterion DVD edition, restored by David Shepard with a score by TimothyBrock. At the Toronto screening, the composer Gabriel Thibaudeau, from Quebec,led nine musicians (four flute players, a soprano, a bass, a drummer, and theInuit throat-singers Akinisie Sivuaraapik and Caroline Novalinga) in thepremiere of his score that celebrates the beauty of the land and, during scenesof crisis, expresses urgency, surprise, fear and triumph in throat-sounds bothmusical and elemental. Now that do-it-yourself commentary tracks can bedownloaded from the Web and played with DVDs, I wonder if this performancecould be made available the same way -- or offered as an alternative track onthe next DVD edition.