There are two numbers in "Top Hat" where the dancingon the screen reaches such perfection as is attainable. They are byFred AstaireandGinger Rogersfor "Isn't This a Lovely Day?" and "Cheek toCheek." Because Astaire believed that movie dance numbers should be shotin unbroken takes that ran as long as possible, what they perform is anachievement in endurance as well as artistry. At a point when many dancerswould be gasping for breath, Astaire and Rogers are smiling easily, heedlessly.To watch them is to see hard work elevated to effortless joy: The work of twodancers who know they can do no better than this, and that no one else can doas well. Advertisement Themovie has three other dance numbers, two solos by Astaire that are wonderfulbut not transcendent, and a final duet with Rogers ("The Piccolino"),where one of Irving Berlin's lesser songs is redeemed by the sight of Astaireand Rogers dancing all over a huge set that is intended to represent acanal-side hotel in Venice and looks every bit as realistic as the Grand CanalShoppes at the Venetian in Las Vegas. Themovie's plot depends on a misunderstanding that is all but impossible: Gingerfalls in love with Fred, then mistakenly decides he is the cheating husband ofher best friend, Madge. "How is it that Ginger has never met her bestfriend's husband?" Alan Vanneman reasonably asks in the Bright Lights FilmJournal. "Well, Europe is a big place." Yes,and Madge and her husband, Horace, spend long periods living separate lives ofluxury. That Horace is a womanizer seems, strangely, to cheer Madge, perhapsbecause none of the sex in this movie seems to require body parts. That's whyshe gives her blessing to what Ginger thinks is adultery. She even pushes thecouple onto the dance floor for the "Cheek to Cheek" number. Thisis an Idiot Plot, yes, and could be cleared up at any moment by one line ofsensible dialogue, but there are times when nothing but an Idiot Plot will do,and we are happy to play along. The movie, made during the Depression in 1935,features characters so rich that even their butlers are gentlemen of leisure.Astaire plays Jerry Travers, who is opening in a London musical being producedby his best friend, Horace Hardwick (Edward Everett Horton), which means hedoesn't know his best friend's wife, either. Forreasons utterly contrived, Jerry is staying in Horace's hotel suite, which iswhy Dale Tremont (Rogers) finds Astaire when she rings Horace's doorbell. Asthe film opens, Horace advises Jerry on the pleasures of marriage, and Astaireinsists on the joys of bachelorhood with "No Strings," a Berlin songwith lyrics that could have been written by the naughtyCole Porter:Bring on the big attractionMy decks are cleared for actionI'm fancy free and free for anything fancy.Histap-dancing during this number disturbs Dale, who is sleeping directly belowthem in a bedroom that looks like where Botticelli's Venus spends her nightswhen the clamshell gets damp. She comes upstairs to complain, he falls in love,and the next day buys out the hotel flower shop to fill her room. "I wonderwhat Mr. Beddini is going to say about this," the shop owner muses to anunbilledLucille Ball. "The desk clerk has intimated that Mr. Beddiniprovides Miss Tremont with all the niceties, including her clothes. And herniceties are very nice." Advertisement AlbertoBeddini, who often speaks of himself in the third person, is played by ErikRhodes as a dress designer who pays Dale's expenses in return for her showingoff his gowns at fancy watering holes. That he is gay goes without saying, andin 1935, it did. At one point, fed up with Dale, he declares, "Never againwill I allow women to wear my dresses." Jerryand Dale meet in the hotel lobby, where she's on her way to riding lessons. Hepursues her to the park, where her ride is interrupted by a sudden shower. Shetakes refuge in a pavilion where he finds her, and as the rain pours all aroundthem, he sings "Isn't This a Lovely Day?" She tries to remain aloof,but when he begins to dance she begins, reluctantly at first, to join him. Whendiscussions come up about which of the two was the better dancer, people oftenquote a line that became famous after a 1982 Frank and Ernest comic strip:"Ginger Rogers did everything Fred did, and she did it backwards and inhigh heels." Although she is wearing riding boots and not heels in thisscene, what is remarkable is how supremely the two dancers work together. Thedance begins as a solo by Astaire and then becomes a conversation in dance,each one performing a dazzling step which the other reproduces, until they arein perfect synchronicity. After watching this scene, there is only one thing tobe done, and that is to watch it again. Daleis now in love with this man, whoever he is. Then a hotel clerk points out"Mr. Hardwick" on the mezzanine, she thinks he's pointing to Jerry,and is furious to have been romanced by a married man. She confesses all toMadge (played byHelen Broderick, who was the mother ofBroderick Crawford, andwe can believe it). But Madge is elated by the news, the latest in a series ofdalliances by Horace that result in payoffs of diamonds and furs for her.Horace, who doesn't know about the mistaken identity, thinks Jerry and Dale aresimply having an affair, and assigns his butler Bates (Eric Blore, aningratiating busybody) to shadow them and keep Jerry out of trouble before hisshow's big opening night. Astaire arrives late at the theater, just in time forhis "Top Hat, White Tie and Tails" dance number, which provided hissignature song. Advertisement Andwhy am I bothering to describe this plot, which exists as such silly froth itmakes P.G. Wodehouse look ponderous by comparison? Perhaps because the actorsgive it such goofy playfulness. Events conspire to transport all of theprincipals to Venice, created on a gigantic Venetian set where gondolas travelfor yards at a time and seaplanes land at restaurants. It was here that Madgeintended to introduce them; she still doesn't know they've met under Dale'simpression that Jerry is Horace. I love writing sentences like that. "Youtwo run along and dance," Madge tells them, "and don't give meanother thought." That's when Dale decides, "If Madge doesn't care, Icertainly don't." Jerry replies, "Neither do I. All I know is..."Heaven, I'm in Heaven ...And my heart beats so that I can hardly speak ...Andthen comes their third great dance number, covering most of the visible realestate in Venice and conveniently clearing a dance floor for theirpas de deux. This is the numberfeaturing Rogers' famous gown made mostly of ostrich feathers, which Astairehated because they distracted from the clean lines of the dance (in "SwingTime," one of her beaded costumes actually swipes him in the face). Thefeathers are a challenge for Rogers, too, who has to work with and not againstthem. Her choreography causes them to undulate as if she herself is almost inflight; at the moments when, in Astaire's arms, she bends over backward almostto the floor, they underline the appearance of surrender. Becausewe are human, because we are bound by gravity and the limitations of ourbodies, because we live in a world where the news is often bad and theprospects disturbing, there is a need for another world somewhere, a worldwhere Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers live. Where everyone is a millionaire andhotel suites are the size of ballrooms and everything is creased, combed,brushed, shined, polished, powdered and expensive. Where you seem to find thehappiness you seek, when you're out together dancing cheek to cheek. It doesn'teven matter if you really find it, as long as you seem to find it, becauseappearances are everything in this world, and ...Let the rain pitter patterBut it really doesn't matterIf the skies are gray.Long as I can be with you,It's a lovely day.Song lyrics © Estate of Irving Berlin. Also in Ebert's"Great Movies" collection: Astaire and Rogers in "SwingTime" and Astaire and     Cyd Charisse    in "     The Band    Wagon."Advertisement