I might have thought "Atlantic City" was more of afantasy had I not lived for several weeks circa 1970 in a hotel near SunsetStrip named the Sunset Marquis. It is now a luxury hotel of the same name, butat that time a room was $19 a night, and the residents included Tiny Tim, VanHeflin andElaine May. You dialed room service, you got Greenblatt's Deli. Ascrap-iron dealer named Jack Sachs presided as the "mayor" from hispoolside efficiency. He ran the cocktail hour as his personal salon, supplyingwhiskey to the circulating population of show-biz folks --Jackie Gayle, RoyScheider,Harold Ramis-- on their way up, down or sideways. Advertisement Asimilar establishment provides the location forLouis Malle's "AtlanticCity" (1980), which takes place in an apartment house near the Boardwalk.It's slated for demolition, and all around are vacant lots filled with rubbleand the sky-cranes of new construction. Every exterior shot seems to have abackground of debris being shoved out of upper windows, or bulldozers clearingvacant lots. Inthis doomed building live three people: An oyster-bar waitress named Sally(Susan Sarandon), an aging numbers runner named Lou (Burt Lancaster) and awidow named Grace (Kate Reid), who came to the city 40 years ago for a BettyGrable look-alike contest and depends on Lou to run her errands, some of asexual nature. She lives in an apartment so filled with photographs, stuffedanimals, feather boas, geegaws, silk festoons and glitz that you might think itis a fantasy, but not me, because I saw Tiny Tim's apartment one morning whenthe maid left the door standing open. Louclaims to have been big-time in Vegas in the old days, "a cellmate ofBugsy Siegel," no less. Now he walks a daily route through Atlantic City'surban decay, taking 25-cent bets on the numbers. It's implied that a stipendfrom Grace keeps him afloat. At night he stands behind the blinds of hisdarkened apartment and watches as Sally engages in an after-work ritual. Shecuts fresh lemons and caresses her skin to take away the shellfish smell. Later,after they know each other, Lou confesses that he used to watch her. She saysshe knew there was somebody, but didn't know who. "What did you see whenyou looked at me?" she asks. He describes her ritual in great detail, andwhen the camera cuts back to her, she has opened her blouse, as if his wordswere stage directions. Intothis closed world come two loose cannons, Dave and Chrissie. Dave was oncemarried to Sally, then ran away with Chrissie, Sally's younger sister. They'rea better match, equally spaced out; Sally on the other hand wants to succeed."Teach me stuff," she asks Lou at one point. She'staking lessons in blackjack from a casino boss (Michel Piccoli). Dave hasstolen some drugs in Philadelphia, wants to sell them in Atlantic City, and hasa contact named Alfie (Al Waxman) who runs a permanent poker game in a hotelroom. Gangsters from Philadelphia inevitably come looking for their drugs andfor Dave, who becomes dead. Chrissie becomes the confidant of Grace, Louinherits the drugs and makes the deals, and then he buys himself a new whitesuit and sets himself up as a knight in shining armor to protect Sally from theguys who killed her ex-husband. Advertisement Thereis nothing particularly new in this screenplay, written by the playwright JohnGuare, and assembled from drugs, colorful characters, a decaying city, memoriesof the past. What makes "Atlantic City" sweet -- and that's the wordfor it -- is the gentleness with which Lou handles his last chance at amountingto something, and the wisdom with which Sally handles Lou. Lou wants to takethe drug money as a gift from the gods and recreate his glory days. Thequestion is, were there really glory days? A gangster as important as Louclaims to have been should be, by now, either rich or dead. Louis not a letch. He has dignity, the same kind of instinctive aristocraticself-regard that made Lancaster's performance in Visconti's "TheLeopard" (1963) so authentic. When you embody dignity, you don't need toplay it. There is a moment in the hotel room with the poker players when hecasually uses the side of his arm to brush away someone who invades his space.And a moment when he says quietly to another man, "Don't touch thesuit." That he can seriously see himself as the lover of the much younger Sallyis more plausible when he uses the word "protector." Whenhe actually does protect her, his dreams seem within reach. The giveaway isthat he's so elated when he defends her from an attack by two hoods. A realgangster, a real buddy of Bugsy's, a real former hit-man, would not be asexcited as a kid. Yet Lou's childlike delight at his own startling behavior ispart of the man he really is: Like the narrator of Scorsese's"GoodFellas," he admires and envies gangsters and likes to be a big shot. LouisMalle (1932-1995) was a French New Wave pioneer who alternated betweendocumentaries and fiction, between France and America. His first feature,"Elevator to the Gallows" (1958), grew directly from the 1950s Frenchnoirperiod that gave us Jacques Becker,Jean-PierreMelville and the late flowering of the actorJean Gabin. Their French noirswere more elegies than adventures, more concerned with failure than triumph,less interested in action than the close observation of the daily behavior oftheir heroes. The best scene in Becker's "Touchez Pas au Grisbi"shows Gabin preparing a late-night dinner of pate for the old pal he hasloyally supported through one fiasco after another. After dinner, he gives hima toothbrush and pajamas. Advertisement ForLancaster's character, the association with Grace begins with the fact that sheneeds Lou to survive. To conceal her desperation, she insults and criticizeshim like a diva, and he sees right through her. Grace the aging beauty (andperhaps retired whore) finds a natural rapport with Chrissie the hippie, whobelieves in reincarnation and foot reflexology. They're far apart in age, styleand beliefs, but they both construct fantasies to wall off the grim realitysurrounding them. Asfor Lou and Sally, there is something tender and subtle going on. Neither wasborn yesterday. Both have dreams. Both have lived with disappointment. Eventhough they could be lovers, they have no future together, and maybe no futureseparately. They don't need to say this to each other. When he helps her, it isbecause she needs help, and equally because he needs to help. His payoff is notliving happily ever after, but in having an eyewitness who knows that at leastonce during his descent into obscurity he stepped up to the plate and acted ashe thinks a man should act -- a man like the men he admires, who may have beencriminals but were powerful and respected. The movie does not deny reality; itends with what must happen, in the way it must happen, given what has gonebefore. Tenyears after his death, Louis Malle is the subject of a tribute at FacetsCinematheque in Chicago. The nearly complete retrospective includes films("Au Revoir les Enfants," "Lacombe, Lucien," "Murmurof the Heart," "Damage") that are as good or better than"Atlantic City," but which are surprisingly not in print on video.The British critic Philip French, who knew Malle since his first film, thinks"Atlantic City" is the best of his American projects, although Iwould choose "My Dinner with Andre" (1981), and Stanley Kauffmannthinks "Vanya on 42nd Street" (1994), Malle's last film, is the onlysuccessful film of a Chekhov play. WhenI told a French film official last autumn that I had just seen and admired"Elevator to the Gallows," I received not a smile but a scornful"pffft!" Perhaps Malle alienated his countrymen by moving to America,by marryingCandice Bergen, by taking on so many American stories ("PrettyBaby," "Alamo Bay"). Malle did not follow his New Wave originsinto ideological extremities, like Godard, but like his German contemporaryFassbinder frankly desired large audiences. What'sinteresting, even with a seemingly commercial project like "AtlanticCity," is how resolutely he stayed with the human dimension of his storyand let the drug plot supply an almost casual background. Here is a movie wherereincarnation is treated at least as seriously as cocaine, and the white suiteven more so."My Dinner With Andre" is also in the Great Moviesseries, and Ebert reviews many other Malle films, including "Elevator to theGallows." There are also 1972 and 1976 interviews with Malle.Advertisement