We must turn to the past for a film as innocent as"Forbidden Games" (1952), because our own time is too cynical tosupport it. Here is a film about children using their powers of fantasy anddenial to deal with death in wartime. A modern film would back away from thehorror and soften and sentimentalize it. It would become a "children'sfilm." But in all times children have survived experiences that no childshould have to endure. Sometimesthey're able to shield their innocence by creating games to process the pain."Forbidden Games" was attacked and praised by adults for the samereason: because it showed children inventing happiness where none should exist.The Japanese animated film "Grave of the Fireflies" (1988) is anotherrare film with the courage to walk this path. Advertisement Thefilm begins during the Nazi invasion of France in 1940. We meet a 5-year-oldgirl named Paulette, with her parents. The road out of Paris is clogged withthose escaping the city. It is being strafed by Nazi fighter planes. Paulette'slittle dog runs onto a bridge. She chases it, and her parents desperately runafter her. Bullets kill both parents and fatally wound the dog. Paulette, lyingon the ground next to her mother, reaches out a hand to touch the dead cheek,and then touches her own cheek. She does not cry. She does not quiteunderstand. She holds her puppy. Its legs jerk spasmodically for a long timebefore it dies. Sheis given a ride by strangers. The man throws her dog into the river. She jumpsoff their cart and runs down to save the dog, and is seen by a young local boynamed Michel, the young son of the Dolle family, peasants on a nearby farm. Sheis taken in by the Dolles and immediately becomes Michel's favorite. He willgive his blanket to her. He will demand that the family keep her. He will havea playmate. Thelove between the two children is almost too pure and simple to be believed --unless you can remember being a child. For some reason, we remember best thechildren we hated, or who hated us. But with a playmate we can construct aworld so compelling that all our thoughts are given to its creation andmaintenance. With Jackie, the girl next door, I spent days building a toyvillage on the dining room floor, around an electric train set. It was soelaborate, so invested with our stories of what each house meant, that when ithad to be "cleaned up," we felt a hurt no adult could imagine. Paulette(Brigitte Fossey) determines to bury her dog. Michel (Georges Poujouly) helpsher, because she isn't big enough to handle the hoe she has stolen. The graveis hidden in an abandoned mill. They need a crucifix for it, and Michel hammersone from lumber. Paulette has never really dealt with the deaths of herparents. She acknowledges that they are gone, but they are gone in theory, notpractice; that they are truly dead forever seems to elude her. Yet she becomesfascinated with death, and Michel joins her in burying a mole that was capturedby an owl. Soon they are burying every dead thing they can find, even worms,even broken plates. At one point, while they are lying side by side on thefloor doing his homework, he stabs a cockroach with his pen. "Don't killhim! Don't kill him!" she cries, and he says, "I didn't. It was abomb that killed him." Advertisement Closestudy of this scene reveals a curious detail. She presses to the ground as shecries out, and we cannot see her face. If we happen to look at Michel's face,we will notice that his lips are moving, although we do not hear his voice.Clearly the scene was constructed in the editing room, matching her voice tovisuals that did not match. That's possibly an indication of the difficultiesthe director,Rene Clement, had in directing children so young in a story sofraught. But for the most part the children are astonishingly natural andconvincing, and in an interview much later, Fossey remembered with a smile thatClement asked her to cry "a little more" or "a little less"and she fine-tuned her tears. Theircemetery grows larger. They begin to steal crucifixes to put above the graves.Paulette, who does not know her prayers, or about the Stations of the Cross, orwhat a crucifix is, must be Jewish. Michel innocently teaches her, and thatknowledge could eventually save her life. There is a comic subplot involving arural feud between the Dolles and their neighbors, the Gouards, who accuse eachother of stealing crucifixes; at one point a fight in the cemetery ends withtwo brothers fighting and falling into a grave. All the while the secretcemetery in the old mill grows more elaborate. "ForbiddenGames" was the first feature by Rene Clement; his short film on the samestory was seen by the directorJacques Tati, who told him it must become afeature. It came (as Tati did) from outside the French film establishment; itsproducer, Robert Dorfmann, had powerful enemies. Thefilm was initially turned down by Cannes, then accepted after a scandal. It wasturned down by Venice because it had played at Cannes, but accepted afteranother uproar, and won the Golden Lion as best film, with a best actress awardfor Fossey (she grew up to make many more good films). It won an honorary Oscarin 1953. Yet one critic said the film itself should be forbidden. Clement wasaccused simultaneously of trivializing the war and inflicting its horrors toomercilessly on his actors. Leftist critics accused him of an attack on theworking class, although his poor peasant farmers are the most warm and generousof characters. Advertisement Tobe sure, it is remarkable that Fossey was able to weather this experience at 5.Poujouly, her co-star, was 9 or 10. She remembers doing better than olderactresses at the audition because she had no idea what stakes were involved;they were nervous, but she just went ahead and did as she was told. Clement"shot around" her character as much as possible, shooting close-upsof her looking at events so she did not really have to witness them, and sheremembers attending the premiere at Cannes and seeing the planes attack thebridge for the first time. She was horrified. Thebeautifully restored new Criterion DVD of the film includes an alternatebeginning and ending, filmed but never used, in which the scenario is framed asa "story" from a book that Michel reads to Paulette. Thefilm is so powerful because it does not compromise on two things: the horror ofwar and the innocence of childhood. Fossey's face becomes a mirror that refusesto reflect what she must see and feel. She transposes it all into the game ofburying the dead and placing crosses over them. Thecinematographer, Robert Juillard, always places a little additional light onher face and blond hair, suggesting an angel without insisting on it. Onlygradually do we come to understand the total power that their fantasy has overthe children, and what measures they will take in its defense. It is funny,also sad, when Paulette fixates on every crucifix she sees, and Michelconfesses the theft of some crucifixes and then pauses on his way out of theconfessional to try stealing another one from the altar. Advertisement Movieslike Clement's "Forbidden Games" cannot work unless they are allowedto be completely simple, without guile, transparent. Despite the scenes I havedescribed, it is never a tear-jerker. It doesn't try to create emotions, but toobserve them. Paulette cannot speak for herself, and the movie doesn't try tospeak for her. That's why it is so powerful: Her grief is never addressed, andwith the help of a boy who loves her, she surrounds it with a game that noadult could possibly understand, or penetrate.(Clement's "     Purple Noon    ," the first big-screenadaptation of one of Patricia Highsmith's Ripley novels, is also reviewed inthe Great Movies section.)