Jean Renoir's "The River" (1951) begins with a circlebeing drawn in rice paste on the floor of a courtyard, and the circularpatterns continue. In an opening scene, the children of a British family inIndia peer through porch railings at a newcomer arriving next door. At the end,the same children, less one, peer through the same railing at a departure. Theporch overlooks a river, "which has its own life," and as the riverflows and the seasons wheel in their appointed order, the Hindu festivalspunctuate the year and all flows from life to death to rebirth, as it must. Advertisement Thefilm is one of the simplest and most beautiful by Jean Renoir (1894-1979),among the greatest of directors. Based on the novel byRumer Godden, who wasborn in India and lived there many years, it remembers her childhood seenthrough the eyes of a young girl named Harriet (Patricia Walters), who falls inlove with the new neighbor. He is Capt. John (Thomas E. Breen), an American wholost a leg in the war and now has come to live with his cousin, Mr. John(Arthur Shields). Wemeet Harriet's family: Her parents, her three sisters, her brother Bogey. Wealso meet Mr. John's daughter Melanie (Radha), whose Hindu mother has died, andValerie (Adrienne Corri), whose father owns the jute factory that Harriett'sfather manages. There are others: The family's nanny, the young Indian man whocourts Melanie, the Sikh gatekeeper, the young Indian boy who is Bogey'splaymate. Althoughthe film covers one year, the impression is of an endless summer day duringwhich the girls play and write in their journals, observe the flow of lifeoutside their gates, and are fascinated by Capt. John. At the time of the Hindufestival of light, there is a little party at the family home with music from awind-up phonograph, and each of the older girls asks Capt. John to dance beforehe finally settles in a corner with Valerie. It becomes clear to young Harriet,despite her crush on the captain, that he has eyes for the red-haired Valerie.What she does not notice is that he is also attracted to his half-Indian cousinMelanie, and she to him. One day both Melanie and Harriet follow Valerie andCapt. John out into a grove, where they kiss. "It was my first kiss,"Harriet remembers, "but received by another." Melanie must have feltthe same. Tosome degree, the girls are in love with Capt. John because he is the onlyeligible man in their lives. No other characters appear or are discussed; thathe is sad and detached they can overlook. Harriet impatiently wants to be oldenough to be visible to Capt. John. "I want to be outstandinglybeautiful," she tells her pregnant mother. Harriet's narration is spokenby an adult voice; we understand these events take place around 1946. Capt.John has come to live in India, he tells the Anglo-Indian Melanie, because withone leg he feels like an outsider. "I'm a stranger wherever I go," hesays, and she replies quietly, "Where will you find a country ofone-legged men?" She is a stranger, too, because of her mixed race."I don't know where you belong," her father tells her. Advertisement Certainlyall of their lives stand apart from India; we never hear a conversation betweenMelanie and her Indian suitor, or between Bogey and his Indian playmate, andthe nanny is limited to nannyisms; she is not even given the Indian titleayahby which all nannies were known.Scenes of the real India outside the compound are mostly in long-shot. Thefilm is not constructed around high melodrama, but its deepest feelings areexpressed when the two outsiders, Melanie and Capt. John, speak with eachother, almost in code. Melanie has an enchanted scene in which she tells astory about the meeting of Prince Krishna and his bride, named Radha. Theactress Radha was a dancer, and her character's story leads into a dance scenethat allows some of the color and mystery of Indian religion to enter theisolation of the British family's compound. "TheRiver" and Michael Powell's "The Red Shoes" are "the twomost beautiful color films ever made,"Martin Scorsesesays in aninterview on the new Criterion DVD of the restored print. I saw the movie forthe first time when Scorsese's personal 35mm copy played at the Virginia Film Festivalsome years ago; when I mentioned it to him, he said, "I watch that filmthree times a year. Sometimes four." Onthe DVD, he says it reaches him more powerfully than "Rules of theGame," considered Renoir's masterpiece. Some will agree, some will not."The River" is like an Ozu film in the way it regards life withouttrying to wrest it into a plot. During the course of the year, the girls fallin love with the same unavailable man, there is a death and a birth, and theriver continues to flow. Renoir,son of the impressionist painter Pierre-Auguste Renoir, directed his first filmin 1924 and was considered a grand master when he fled the Nazis and moved toHollywood in 1941. There he worked with mixed success until, by the time hemade "The River," he was almost unemployable. The film was financedby an outsider, Kenneth McEldowney, a Hollywood florist who loved Godden'snovel. Renoirinsisted on filming it on location in India, which he did with his nephewClaude Renoiras cameraman (and youngSatyajit Rayas an assistant director).It was the first Technicolor film made in India. The budget was small. Therewere no stars, and some of the players had never acted before. Much of theatmosphere flows from Renoir's documentary footage, showing a bazaar, lifealong the river, annual festivals, boatmen at their work, and Hindus descendingflights of stairs both grand and humble to bathe and pray in the water. Advertisement TheBritish family lives apart from this India, and knows it. Behind the walls oftheir garden is a separate world, protected by the stern Sikh gatekeeper; onlyBogey's young playmate climbs the walls. Together, the boys sneak out to thebazaar and watch a snake-charmer, and Bogey finds another snake in the roots ofthe giant banyan tree right outside the garden -- a tree whose roots fall downfrom the branches to reach for the ground, and among which gods and spirits aresaid to live. Thereare subdued issues here involving colonialism and racism. Does Capt. John shyaway from romance with Melanie because she is not white? Is Harriet's fatherbeing paternalistic when he "loves" the sight of the laborers bearingtheir vast bundles of jute into the factory? The issues are there, but they arenot called into focus, and the life Harriet shows us is the only one she knows. Thecenter of her world is a cubbyhole under the stairs, where she keeps her poetryand journals, and it is a betrayal when Valerie snatches away a notebook andreads Capt. John some of the younger girl's love poems. India itself is on thebrink of independence and partition, but Harriet is on the brink ofadolescence, and that is much more important to her, as perhaps is natural. Filmshave grown so aggressive and jittery that it takes patience to calm down intoone like "The River." Its most dramatic moment takes place offscreen.Renoir is not interested in emotional manipulation but in regarding lives as theyare lived. Not everyone we like need be successful, and not everyone we dislikeneed fail. All will be sorted out in the end -- or perhaps not, which is alsothe way time passes and lives resolve themselves. Nothingis really finished at the end of "The River." Despite Jane Austen'sinsistence that a man like Capt. John "must be in want of a wife," heis still in want as the film ends. Harriet has not yet grown up. Melanie hasstill not found a place for herself. Renoir's way of bringing his story to aconclusion is a form of understated poetry. All three girls receive lettersfrom Capt. John. All three open them and begin to read them while sitting onthe steps, and then from within the house comes a baby's cry. The nanny emergesto announce: "It's a girl!" And the three girls jump up and rush intothe house, the letters fluttering forgotten to the ground behind them.A new print of "The River" plays Feb. 24-March 3 atthe Music Box Theatre, 3733 N. Southport. "The River" is available onDVD, as are these other titles in the Great Movies series: Renoir's "Rulesof the Game" and "Grand Illusion," Powell's "The RedShoes" and Satyajit Ray's "Apu Trilogy" and "The MusicRoom."Advertisement