"Cat People" is constructed almost entirely out offear. There wasn't a budget for much of anything else. It exists on eight ornine sets, the running time is only 73 minutes, it has few special effects,there are no major stars, the violence is implied or dreaded but not much seen.Yet the film, made as a B picture for only $135,000, became RKO's top grosserfor 1942, bringing in $4 million, compared to the studio's "CitizenKane" at $500,000 in 1941. It renewed the careers of its producer ValLewton, its directorJacques Tourneurand its star, the French actress SimoneSimon; it inspired 10 more macabre titles from Lewton's production unit and wascopied all over Hollywood -- because it was scary, and because it was cheap.What was hard to copy was its artistry. Advertisement "Cat People" wasn't frightening like a slasher movie,using shocks and gore, but frightening in an eerie, mysterious way that washard to define; the screen harbored unseen threats, and there was an undertoneof sexual danger that was more ominous because it was never acted upon. Itsheroine is a beautiful woman who never sleeps with her new husband (indeed shenever even kisses him) because she fears that passion could turn her into apanther. The film magnifies her dread by exploiting the fear some people haveof cats: They're sneaky and devious and creep up on you, and are associatedwith Satan. Thesedark undertones are framed by a story of everyday life. Irena (Simon) issketching a panther at the zoo when she meets the clean-cut and well-behavedarchitectOliver Reed(Kent Smith). He walks her home, she asks him in for tea,and they fall in love. She talks of her village in Serbia, of the belief thatit sheltered satanic cultists who could take the form of cats. Good King Johntried to kill these cat people, but some fled into the mountains, where theyare said to live to this day. Irena secretly fears she is one of those people. Thedialogue, a first screenplay byDeWitt Bodeen, contains lines that hint at thebizarre and the erotic. Oliver tells Irena her perfume is "warm andliving." Irena says the roars of the big cats in the nearby zoo is"natural and soothing." As the afternoon lengthens, she finally turnson a light, after saying she finds the dark "friendly." Tourneur andhis cinematographer, Nicholas Musuraca, who also worked together on the greatfilm noir "Out of the Past," are masters of light and shadow. Theyoften place Irena in darkness, cast the silhouettes of other characters on thewall behind her, enclose her with shadows that work like a cage. Advertisement Irenaand Oliver announce their engagement at a party in a restaurant, where aninexplicable and disturbing thing happens: She is approached by a strange woman(Elizabeth Russell), who affects a cat-like appearance and addresses her inSerbian, calling her "sister." We never see this woman again, but herspectre haunts the movie. Are there lesbian notes in her approach to Irena?Perhaps in the sense that she is a powerful animal who challenges Oliver'sright to claim a mate? Intheir marriage, Irena is fearful, and we understand that she is fearful ofherself, of her latent evil. When the extraordinarily patient Oliver observes,"I've never kissed you," Irena tells him: "I've lived in dreadof this moment. I've never wanted to love you. I've stayed away from people ...I've fled from the past. Some things you could never know, or understand --evil things." Some of their conversations take place while he stands onone side of her bedroom door and she slumps against the other side. Hebegins to work late at the office, where his co-worker Alice (Jane Randolph) issympathetic. Irena follows him, sees them together, grows jealous, and one ofthe movie's great sequences shows Alice walking home on a dark and desertedstreet, followed by footsteps. Nothing precisely happens to her, and we seelittle but some shadows and some disturbed leaves, but Alice is terrified whenshe jumps on a bus; she knows she saw something, which she will later describeto Oliver as Irena's "cat form." Her night walk seems to pass thesame short span of stone wall again and again; Tourneur edits to make it seemlonger. We are aware of the visual trick, yet it evokes a dreamlike quality. Curiously,Alice, Irena and Oliver continue as friends, although there is a giveawaymoment when they visit a museum together. As he suggests that Irena look at anupstairs exhibit, Oliver uses the word "we" to refer to himself andAlice, not Irena. This slip betrays him. Later that night, Alice goes for aplunge in the swimming pool at her residential club, and in a genuinelyterrifying sequence she treads water in the deserted pool while ... something... growls and paces, and then she screams. Notice how light reflected from thesurface of the pool causes unsettling patterns to creep along the walls. Advertisement Irenahas been seeing a psychiatrist. Dr. Judd (Tom Conway), a graduate of theVincent Priceschool of therapy, talks to her while her face is detached in acircle of light surrounded by darkness. These sessions are not helpful, and shefinds more relief by returning again and again to the leopard cage at the zoo.The genius of the film is in its indirection. It doesn't specifically show ushorrible things happening. It toys with us, introducing the elements from whichhorror could emerge. For example, Oliver gives Irena a kitten, which isterrified of her. Having established dark possibilities, "Cat People"gives us daylight scenes and chirpy supporting characters who don't realizethey're skirting danger. At a pet shop run by a woman so cheerful she seemsdemented, they trade the cat for a canary. The destiny of this canary supplies,in a way, all we need to know about Irena's fundamental nature. Yet she reallydoes love Oliver -- love him, and need him, as "the only friend I've everhad." The film evokes the loneliness of the person set aside fromhumanity, given skills or powers that are a curse; it has the same kind ofuneasy sympathy for Irena that Anne Rice has for her vampires. It's not muchfun, being a cat woman. Asa group, the films that Val Lewton produced in the 1940s are a landmark inAmerican movie history. Born in the Ukraine, raised in Berlin, a newspapermanand pulp writer, he was a story editor forDavid O. Selznickbefore startinghis own unit at RKO. Lewton (1904-1951) worked with directors who becameimportant (Tourneur,Mark Robson,Robert Wise), but the films were and stillare identified as his; I remember the French directorBertrand Tavernierandthe American critic Manny Farber at the 1990 Telluride festival, talking abouthow unusual it was for a producer, not a director, to be the ruling auteur of agroup of films. Lewtonmay have found his overall approach by happenstance in "Cat People,"which began as a title without a story and developed its minimalist style as aresult of the low budget. But he and Tourneur had found a note that worked, andin various ways Lewton found it again in such films as "I Walked with aZombie" (1943), "The Leopard Man" (1943), "The Curse of theCat People" (1944) and "The Body Snatcher" (1945). He made"movies that are often more like symbolist poems or obscure fetishisticrituals," wrote Geoffrey O'Brien in the New York Review of Books."They are not so much frightening as unnervingly strange and shot throughwith a palpable melancholy." Advertisement Dothe movies still work today, or are they too quiet? Depends on your tastes.Paul Schradermade a much more specific version of "Cat People" in1982, which I admired for its own qualities, including the use of atmosphericNew Orleans locations. But the 1942 movie gets under your skin. There issomething subtly alarming about the oddly mannered good-girl behavior of SimoneSimon, and the unearthly detachment of Kent Smith as her husband, and the roomsand streets that look not like places but like ideas of places. And somethingtouching about Irena, who has never had a friend, and fears she will kill theonly person she loves, and is told she is insane. At the end, Oliver pays her asimple tribute: "She never lied to us."The new bookIcons of Grief,by Alexander Nemerov, is astudy of Val Lewton's career. See also the Great Movie review of Tourneur's"Out of the Past."