"Shrek the Third" is a damped-down return to theKingdom of Far Far Away, lacking the comic energy of the first brilliant filmand not measuring up to the second. From the thrills of dragon-slaying anddamsel-rescuing, Shrek's challenges have been reduced to a career decision:Should he become the king? Themovie is as visually enchanting as the first two in the series, and the biggreen ogre (voice ofMike Myers) is as gentle and lovable, but the moviesettles for action that it trusts is funny, instead of aiming for comedyitself. Another peculiarity is that the plot will probably not be engaging foryounger audience members, who understand dragons but don't care that uneasylies the head that wears a crown. Shrek spends too much time in lachrymoseconversation with his bride Fiona (voice ofCameron Diaz) and pondering thechallenge of fatherhood, and not enough time being an ogre. Advertisement Indeed,Shrek is the only character in the movie who makes a big deal about hisogrehood. The king and queen (voices ofJohn CleeseandJulie Andrews) havelong since embraced their son-in-law, and on his deathbed, the frog kingreveals that Shrek is an heir to the throne — one of two, including thefeckless Artie (voice of pop starJustin Timberlake). Shrek demurs, preferringlife back in the swamp in what Fiona describes as his "vermin-filledshack." Whywould Fiona, raised as a princess, accept life in such a dreary mire ofdespond? Recall from "Shrek" (2001) that she was a conventionalprincess only by day, and became an ogre after nightfall. When she was rescuedfrom marriage to Lord Farquaad with Shrek's kiss, she became an ogre full-time.Before that she was a human, I guess, although her father was a frog.Inter-species reproduction is so common in Far Far Away that it makesirrelevant such questions as whether Kermit andMiss Piggyever had sex.Remember that the dragon and Donkey fell in love in the first film. For someonelike me who has never understood how birds and snakes do it, thoughts of theirmarital adventures boggles the mind. Backagain this time are the two supporting stars from the earlier films, Donkey(voice ofEddie Murphy) and Puss in Boots (voice ofAntonio Banderas). Butthey're reduced to being friends and traveling partners and are never reallyforegrounded. At one point, magically, they switch bodies and talk in eachother's voices, but that's what it amounts to: They talk in each other'svoices. Such a thing is not intrinsically funny, unless it is plot orcharacter-driven. Little really depends on it or comes from it, except for aweak little sight gag at the end. Since Murphy's vocal riffs and improvisationshave been so inspired earlier in the series, we want more of him this time, notless. Shrek,Fiona, Donkey and Puss have to sail to the land of Worcestershire to findArtie, and also encounter Prince Charming (voice ofRupert Everett), who isreduced from princehood to (in an opening scene) performing in dinner theater.Fairly arbitrary developments produce a team of heroines (Cinderella, Snow White,Sleeping Beauty) who are sort of Charlie's Angels, I guess, although theyprovide the movie with too many characters and not enough for them to do. Inthe first film, they were a sly Dreamworks dig at Disney and were dumped, asobsolete, in Shrek's private swamp. Advertisement Indeed,the movie practices such economy of characters that the Gingerbread Man and theThree Blind Mice turn up again — unwanted, if you ask me. What's the use ofThree Blind Mice if you can't see them run? And although I have been trained toaccept talking animals, living pastries fail to engage me. Ilearn from Variety that there will be a fourth "Shrek" and a Broadwaymusical, and I hope both return for their inspiration to the original"Shrek." That film did so much with the outsider status of an ogre,and Shrek's painful uncertainties about his role in non-ogre society. Itinvolved intolerance and prejudice and courage, and had real stakes. And it wasfunny. And had great action scenes, like Shrek's rescue of Fiona. Now everybodyin the Land of Far Far Away acts as if we (and they) have seen the first twofilms. Themovie's always a pleasure to watch for its skilled animation. But it lackstruly interesting challenges. It makes the mistake of thinking slapstick actionis funny for its own sake, a mistake made by a lot of Saturday-morning TVcartoons. True, characters zooming and bouncing around are easy to writebecause no creative invention is required to set them in motion. But so what?