There's not a soft or sentimental passage in Billy Wilder's"Ace in the Hole" (1951), a portrait of rotten journalism and thepublic's insatiable appetite for it. It's easy to blame the press for itsportraits of self-destructing celebrities, philandering preachers, corruptpoliticians or bragging serial killers, but who loves those stories? The publicdoes. Wilder, true to this vision and ahead of his time, made a movie in whichthe only good men are the victim and his doctor. Instead of blaming thejournalist who masterminds a media circus, he is equally hard on sightseers whopay 25 cents admission. Nobody gets off the hook here. Advertisement Themovie starsKirk Douglas, an actor who could freeze the blood when he wantedto, in his most savage role. Yes, he made comedies and played heroes, but hecould be merciless, his face curling into scorn and bitterness. He playsCharles Tatum, a skilled reporter with a drinking problem, who has been firedin 11 markets (slander, adultery, boozing) when his car breaks down inAlbuquerque and he cons his way into a job at the local paper. Thebreak he's waiting for comes a year later. Dispatched to a remote town to covera rattlesnake competition, he stops in a desert hamlet and discovers that theowner of the trading post has been trapped in an abandoned silver mine by acave-in. Tatum forgets the rattlesnakes and talks his way into the tunnel totalk to Leo Minosa (Richard Benedict), whose legs are pinned under timbers.When Tatum comes out again, he sees the future: He will nail down possession ofthe story, spin it out as long as he can, and milk it for money, fame and hisold job back East. Confrontedby a corrupt local sheriff and mining experts, Tatum takes charge by force ofwill, issuing orders and slapping around deputies with so much confidence hegets away with it. Learning that Minosa could be rescued in a day or two ifworkers simply shored up the mine tunnel and brought him out, Tatum cooks up acockamamie scheme to lengthen the process: Rescuers will drill straight down tothe trapped man, through solid rock. Thenewspaperman moves into Minosa's trading post and starts issuing orders. Hefinds that the man's wife, a one-time Baltimore bar girl named Lorraine (JanSterling), has raided the cash register and plans to take the next bus out oftown. He slaps her hard, and orders her to stay and portray a grieving spouse.He needs her for his story. Even though the film has been little seen andappeared for the first time on home video last month, it produced one of thosefamous hard-boiled movie lines everybody seems to have heard; ordered to attenda prayer service for her husband, Lorraine sneers, "I don't go to church.Kneeling bags my nylons." Wilder(1906-2002) came to "Ace in the Hole" right after "SunsetBoulevard" (1950), which had 11 Oscar nominations and won three. Known forhis biting cynicism and hard edges in such masterpieces as "DoubleIndemnity" (1944) and "The Lost Weekend" (1945), he outdidhimself with "Ace in the Hole." The film's harsh portrait of anAmerican media circus appalled the critics and repelled the public; it failedon first release, and after it won European festivals and was retitled"The Big Carnival," it failed again. Advertisement There'snot a wasted shot in Wilder's film, which is single-mindedly economical.Students of Arthur Schmidt's editing could learn from the way every shot doesits duty. There's not even a gratuitous reaction shot. The black-and-whitecinematography byCharles Langis the inevitable choice; this story wouldcurdle color. And notice how no time is wasted with needless exposition. Awire-service ticker turns up there, again without comment. A press tent goes upand speaks for itself. Althoughthe film is 56 years old, I found while watching it again that it still has allits power. It hasn't aged because Wilder and his co-writers, Walter Newman andLesser Samuels, were so lean and mean. The dialogue delivers perfectly timedpunches: "I can handle big news and little news. And if there's no news,I'll go out and bite a dog." That'swhat Tatum does with the Minosa story. Not content with the drama of a mantrapped underground, Tatum discovers the mountain is an Indian burial groundand adds speculations about a mummy's curse. Soon gawkers are arriving from allover the country, and those who have arrived to exploit them: hot dog stands,cotton candy vendors, a carnival with a merry-go-round. Meanwhile,Minosa grows weaker and depends on Tatum for his contact with the surface. Thepounding drill, growing closer, tortures him. Rival newsmen complain aboutTatum's role: He controls access to the rescue, the story and the wife. Withevery day that passes, the story grows bigger. And Tatum manufactures news on aslow day. He plunges into the cave with a priest and a doctor, and finds outfrom Leo about his anniversary present for the wife who despises him. It's afur scarf. Tatum hands it to her and tells her to wear it. She hates it. Healmost chokes her with it. She wears it. KirkDouglas (born in 1916) was and still is a ferocious competitor. Little wonderone of his first screen roles was as a boxer in "Champion" (1949).When I interviewed him for Esquire in 1969, the role of a champion was hiscentral theme: "It doesn't matter if you're a nice guy or you're abastard. What matters is, you won't bend!" His focus and energy as ChuckTatum is almost scary. There is nothing dated about Douglas' performance. It'sas right-now as a sharpened knife. Tatumdrives relentlessly toward his goal of money and fame, and if there's a momentwhen we think he might take pity on Minosa, that's just Wilder, yanking ourchains. The way Tatum's thinking evolves about the trapped man is a study insubtlety of direction, writing and acting. In a lesser movie, Tatum would shareour sympathy for the pathetic man. Here, he's on a parabola in that directionbut wants it to intersect with the moment of his own greatest fame. Advertisement Wilder,born in Austria, a refugee from Hitler, certainly became one of America'sgreatest directors. But he never bought into the American dream. What he saw inEurope warned him off dreams. Although "Ace in the Hole" has alwaysbeen considered one of his greatest films, its rejection by the marketplaceisn't surprising: Moviegoers like crime, like suspense, like violence, but theylike happy endings, and Wilder is telling them to wake up and smell the coffee. Whenthe film was released, the press complained about its portrait of newspractices and standards, even though the story was inspired by a real mediacircus when a man named Floyd Collins was trapped in a Kentucky cave. Today, itis hard to imagine some segments of the press not recognizing their hunger forsensation. The same might be said of the public; after the movie was finished,the studio sold admissions to its mountain sets outside Gallup, N.M. "Acein the Hole" is newly available on DVD.