In 1938, the world's most famous movie star began to prepare afilm about the monster of the 20th century.Charlie Chaplinlooked a littlelike Adolf Hitler, in part because Hitler had chosen the same toothbrushmoustache as the Little Tramp. Exploiting that resemblance, Chaplin devised asatire in which the dictator and a Jewish barber from the ghetto would bemistaken for each other. The result, released in 1940, was "The GreatDictator," Chaplin's first talking picture and the highest-grossing of hiscareer, although it would cause him great difficulties and indirectly lead tohis long exile from the United States. Advertisement In 1938, Hitler was not yet recognized in all quarters as theembodiment of evil. Powerful isolationist forces in America preached a policyof nonintervention in the troubles of Europe, and rumors of Hitler's policy toexterminate the Jews were welcomed by anti-Semitic groups. Some of Hitler'searliest opponents, including anti-Franco American volunteers in the SpanishCivil War, were later seen as "premature antifascists"; by fightingagainst fascism when Hitler was still considered an ally, they raised suspicionthat they might be communists. "The Great Dictator" ended with a longspeech denouncing dictatorships, and extolling democracy and individualfreedoms. This sounded to the left like bedrock American values, but to some onthe right, it sounded pinko. IfChaplin had not been "premature," however, it is unlikely he wouldhave made the film at all. Once the horrors of the Holocaust began to be known,Hitler was no longer funny, not at all. The Marx Brothers, ahead of the curve,made "Duck Soup" in 1933, with Groucho playing the dictator Rufus T.Firefly in a comedy that had ominous undertones about what was already underway in Europe. And as late as 1942, the German exileErnst Lubitschmade"To Be or Not to Be," with Jack Benny as an actor who becomesembroiled in the Nazi occupation of Poland. Chaplin'sfilm, aimed obviously and scornfully at Hitler himself, could only have beenfunny, he says in his autobiography, if he had not yet known the full extent ofthe Nazi evil. As it was, the film's mockery of Hitler got it banned in Spain,Italy and neutral Ireland. But in America and elsewhere, it played with animpact that, today, may be hard to imagine. There had never been any fictionalcharacter as universally beloved as the Little Tramp, and although Chaplin wastechnically not playing the Tramp in "The Great Dictator," he lookedjust like him, this time not in a comic fable but a political satire. Advertisement Theplot is one of those concoctions that makes the action barely possible. Thehero, a barber-soldier in World War I, saves the life of a German pilot namedSchultz and flies him to safety, all the time not even knowing he was the enemy.Their crash-landing gives the barber amnesia, and for 20 years he doesn't knowwho he is. Then he recovers and returns to his barber shop in the country ofTomania (say it aloud), only to discover that the dictator Hynkel has come topower, not under the swastika, but under the Double Cross. His storm troopersare moving through the ghetto, smashing windows and rounding up Jews (the term"concentration camp" is used early, matter-of-factly). But thebarber's shop is spared by the intervention of Schultz, now an assistantminister, who recognizes him. Thebarber (never named, just like the Tramp) is in love with the maid Hannah(Paulette Goddard, Chaplin's estranged wife at the time). And he is befriendedby his former neighbors. But he and the disloyal Schultz are eventually put ina concentration camp, and then Hynkel has a boating mishap, is mistaken for thebarber, and locked into the camp just as the barber and Schultz escape -- withHynkel's uniform. Now the barber is assumed by everyone to be the dictator. Inthe classic Chaplin tradition, the movie has a richness of gags and comicpantomime, including Hynkel's famous ballet with an inflated balloon that makesthe globe his plaything. There is a sequence where five men bite into puddingsafter being told the one who finds a coin must give his life to assassinateHynkel. None of them want to find the coin and there is cheating, buteventually -- see for yourself. And there is a long, funny episode when thedictator of neighboring Bacteria, Benzini Napaloni (Jack Oakie), pays a statevisit. Napaloni, obviously modeled on Mussolini, eludes an attempt to make himsit in a low chair so the short Hynkel can loom over him. And when the two ofthem sit in adjacent barber chairs, they take turns pumping their chairs higherthan the other. There is also a lot of confusion about saluting, and Chaplinintercuts shots of the two dictators with newsreels of enormous, cheeringcrowds. In1940, this would have played as very highly charged, because Chaplin waslaunching his comic persona against Hitler in an attempt, largely successful,to ridicule him as a clown. Audiences reacted strongly to the film's humor; itwon five Oscar nominations, for picture, actor, supporting actor (Oakie),screenplay and music (Meredith Willson). But audiences at the time, and eversince, have felt that the film comes to a dead end when the barber,impersonating Hynkel, delivers a monologue of more than three minutes whichrepresents Chaplin's own views. Advertisement Incredibly,no one tries to stop the fake "Hynkel." Chaplin talks straight intothe camera, in his own voice, with no comic touches and only three cutaways, asthe barber is presumably heard on radio all over the world. What he says istrue enough, but it deflates the comedy and ends the picture as a lecture,followed by a shot of Goddard outlined against the sky, joyously facing theHynkel-free future, as the music swells. It didn't work then, and it doesn'twork now. It is fatal when Chaplin drops his comic persona, abruptly changesthe tone of the film, and leaves us wondering how long he is going to talk (aquestion that should never arise during a comedy). The movie plays like acomedy followed by an editorial. Chaplin(1889-1977) nevertheless was determined to keep the speech; it might have beenhis reason for making the film. He put the Little Tramp and $1.5 million of hisown money on the line to ridicule Hitler (and was instrumental in directingmore millions to Jewish refugee centers). He made his statement, it found alarge audience, and in the stretches leading up to the final speech, he showshis innate comic genius. It is a funny film, which we expect from Chaplin, anda brave one. He never played a little man with a mustache again. Andnow a memory. In 1972, the Venice Film Festival staged a retrospective ofChaplin's complete work, with prints from his own collection. On the closingnight, his masterpiece, "City Lights" (1932), was shown outdoors inPiazza San Marco. The lights were off, the orchestras were silenced for thefirst time in more than a century, and the film played on a giant screen tostanding room only. Whenit was over, and the blind flower girl could see again, and she realized theLittle Tramp was her savior, there was much snuffling and blowing of noses.Then a single spotlight sprung from the darkness and illuminated a balconyoverlooking the square. A little man stepped out and waved. And we cheered andcheered.A newly restored 35mm print of "The Great Dictator"will play Friday through Oct. 4 at the Gene Siskel Film Center. Showtimes:Friday and Monday-Thursday at 6 p.m. and 8:30 p.m.; Saturday at 3 p.m., 5:30p.m. and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 pm and 5:30 p.m. Reviews of "CityLights" and "Duck Soup" are also in the Great Movies Collection.Alsosee: "Look,there's Charlie Chaplin!." Advertisement