Doubling back to review movies I missed while ill.“The Namesake” isMira Nair’s ninth feature, and I suspect theone closest to her heart. It tells the story of a young couple who have anarranged marriage in Calcutta and move to New York, where they discover eachother and their new country, and have two children. Then the story shifts tocenter on their son, while keeping them in the picture. Nair, born in India,educated at Harvard, married to a Ugandan, must have felt a resonance on everypage of her source, the beloved novel byJhumpa Lahiri. Advertisement Thefirst meeting of the young woman Ashima (Tabu) and her proposed husband Ashoke(Irrfan Khan) is filmed with subtle charm. Her prospective mother-in-law warnsher that life will be hard in New York, far from home friends, family, all sheknows. “Won’t he be there?” she asks shyly, and the solemn Ashoke smiles, andtheir future is sealed. Her new husband is an aspiring architect, earningenough at first to afford only a low-rent flat in a marginal neighborhood, butAmerica has its consolations: “In this country, the gas is on 24 hours a day!”he tells her. Nairtenderly handles their first days of warily walking and talking around eachother, and tentatively making love. It goes easier than it might have, becausethis is a marriage that was arranged between the right two people, and theirrespect and regard (and eventually deep love) only grow. Alongcomes a son, Gogol (Kal Penn), and a daughter, Sonia (Sahira Nair, thedirector’s niece). Much is made of how Gogol got his name, which is not Indianor American but inspired by his father’s favorite author; as an adolescent theboy comes to hate it, and changes his name to Nikolai (or “Nicky”), Gogol’s ownfirst name. But there is a reason for “Gogol,” and it has much importance forhis father, who often mentions Gogol’s short story, “The Overcoat.” In thatstory, interestingly, the hero has a laughable name, which Gogol explains“happened quite as a case of necessity… it was utterly impossible to give himany other name.” How the American boy got his name becomes the stuff of familylegend. Themovie concerns itself largely with being Indian and American at the same time.With making close ties with other Indian immigrants, sprinkling curry powder onthe Rice Krispies, moving to a split-level suburban house, sending the childrento college. Gogol, or Nicki, acquires a white girlfriend named Maxine (JacindaBarrett), who apparently truly loves him but says the wrong things during aperiod of family mourning, so that Gogol shuts her out. Then he marries aBengali girl named Moushumi (Zuleikha Robinson), who has grown much moresophisticated since he first met her years ago during negotiations betweentheir parents. His sister daughter marries a nice white boy named Ben. “Timesare changing,” Ashima philosophizes. Advertisement Theculture gap is demonstrated when Gogol brings Maxine home to meet his parents,and warns her: “No kissing. No touching.” He has never even seen his ownparents touch. But Maxine impulsively kisses his parents on their cheeks, andthe earth does not move. They would prefer him to marry “a nice Bengali girlwho makes somosas every Thursday,” as Moushumi describes herself, but the filmreveals that the children of the second generation do not always follow thescripts of their parents. Themovie covers some 25 or 30 years, so it is episodic by nature. What holds ittogether are the subtle loving performances by Tabu and Khan, both Bollywooodstars. They never overplay, never spell out what can be said in a glance or ashrug, communicate great passion very quietly. As Gogol, Kal Penn is not amillion miles removed from the character he played in “Harold and Kumar Go toWhite Castle,” although he is a lot smarter. He is an angel until about 13, andthen his parents, heaven help them, find they have given birth to an Americanteenager. “TheNamesake” tells a story that is the story of all immigrant groups in America:Parents of great daring arriving with dreams, children growing up in a way thatmakes them almost strangers, the old culture merging with the new. It has beensaid that all modern Russian literature came out of Gogol’s “Overcoat.” In thesame way, all of us came out of the overcoat of this same immigrant experience.Read “The Overcoat” at:www.geocities.com/short_stories_page/gogolovercoat.html