Homer thinks maybe they should stop at his Uncle Butch's saloonfor a drink before they get home. "You're home now, kid," the olderman Al tells him. Three military veterans have just returned to their hometownof Boone City, somewhere in the Midwest, and each in his own way is dreadinghis approaching reunion. Al's dialogue brings down the curtain on theapprehensive first act of William Wyler's "The Best Years of OurLives" (1946), the first film to win eight Academy Awards (one honorary)and at the time second only to "Gone With the Wind" at the U.S. boxoffice. Seen more than six decades later, it feels surprisingly modern: lean,direct, honest about issues that Hollywood then studiously avoided. After thewar years of patriotism and heroism in the movies, this was a sobering look atthe problems veterans faced when they returned home. Advertisement Themovie centers on the stories of the three men. Al Stephenson (Fredric March),in his 40s, was an infantryman and is now returning to his family and the bankwhere he worked. Fred Derry (Dana Andrews) was a crew member on a bomber. HomerParrish (Harold Russell) was a Navy man who lost both hands and now uses steelhooks. "You gotta hand it to the Navy," Fred tells Al, as they watchHomer walk slowly from their taxi to his front door, "they sure trainedthat kid how to use those hooks." Al says: "They couldn't train himto put his arms around his girl, or to stroke her hair." That'swhy Homer wanted to stop for the drink. When he left for the war, he had anunderstanding with Wilma (Cathy O'Donnell), the girl next door, but now hefears how she will react to his artificial hands. The other men have fears,too. Fred, raised in a shack by the tracks and working as a drugstore soda jerkwhen he enlisted, quickly married the sexy Marie (Virginia Mayo), who hasstopped writing him. Al has been married for 20 years to Milly (Myrna Loy), andhas a son Rob (Michael Hall) and a daughter Peggy (Teresa Wright). They welcomehim home with love and hugs, but he doesn't feel right; his children havechanged, his life has changed, and after Rob goes to bed he suddenly remembersButch's bar and suggests his wife and daughter join him for a celebration. Theother two men also turn up at Butch's. Homer couldn't take the exaggeratedkindness and suppressed grief he thought he sensed from his parents and Wilma.Fred didn't find anyone at home at Marie's apartment. The three men getplastered together, with Al's wife looking on with superhuman understanding.That's the night Fred and Peggy have their first conversation, and begin tofall in love. Themovie's screenplay, by Robert Sherwood, moves confidently among the problemsfaced by the three men; unhurried and relatively low-key, this isn't a fevereddocudrama. It becomes clear to Fred that Marie is a party girl who isn'tinterested in life on his drugstore paycheck of $32.50. Homer coldly tries toforce away Wilma because he doesn't want her pity. Al gets a promotion at thebank, and is in charge of giving loans under the G.I. Bill, but rebels whenhe's asked to trust an applicant's collateral more than his character. Al turnsto drink, and has a half-sloshed, half-heroic moment when he speaks his mind ata company dinner. Advertisement Thefilm makes no effort to paint these men as extraordinary. Their lives, theircharacters, their prospects are all more or less average, and Wyler doesn'tpump in superfluous drama. That's why the movie is so effective, and maybe whyit doesn't seem as dated as some 1946 dramas. But Wyler employed remarkablevisuals to make some of his points. He was working with the greatcinematographerGregg Toland, known for his deep-focus photography on suchfilms as "Citizen Kane," and often Wyler uses deep-focus instead ofcutting, so that the meaning of a scene can reveal itself to us, instead ofbeing pounded down with close-ups. Consider a scene in Butch's where Homerproudly shows how Butch (Hoagy Carmichael) has taught him to play piano withhis hooks. Al and Fred look on, and then Fred walks to a phone booth in the farbackground to make a crucial call. The camera doesn't move, but our eyes followFred's movement to the booth, and we focus on a decision he is making. Oneof the movie's most famous sequences involves Fred deciding to leave town insearch of work, and going to the airport. While waiting for his militarytransport flight, he wanders into a vast graveyard of mothballed warplanes.This scene is heartbreaking. Once Fred flew these planes, and now they, andtheir pilots, are no longer needed. The payoff of the scene is deeply ironic. Andconsider the film's extended closing scene, when Homer and Wilma get married.Fred and Peggy are among the guests. Earlier they have told each they they arein love, and Peggy vowed to her parents she would break up Fred's mistaken andmiserable marriage. But Al warned Fred away from his daughter -- one reason hewas leaving town, even though the tawdry Marie is filing for divorce. Wylershows the entire marriage ceremony, all the way through, starting withCarmichael playing the wedding march, and the lovers exchanging vows. There aretwo parallel lines of suspense. One involves the marriage itself, and whetherHomer's hooks can slip a ring on Wilma's finger. The other involves Fred andPeggy on opposite sides of the same room, their eyes locked as they hear thewedding vows being pronounced. Deep focus allows Wyler to show both of theseevents at once, and his framing draws our eyes to the back of the shot, whereTeresa Wright, never prettier or more vulnerable, doesn't move a muscle. Advertisement "TheBest Years of Our Lives" doesn't use verbal or technical pyrotechnics. Ittrusts entirely in the strength of its story. One of the sources of its poweris the performance by Harold Russell, the handless veteran. Producer SamuelGoldwyn was actually criticized at the time for his "tasteless" useof Russell, but look at the heartbreaking scene where Homer invites Wilma up tohis bedroom -- not to make a pass, but to show her what is involved in gettingready for bed. He thinks maybe then she'll understand why he doesn't think hecan marry her. Russellwas an untrained actor, but utterly sincere. He says: "This is when I knowI'm helpless. My hands are down there on the bed. I can't put them on againwithout calling to somebody for help. I can't smoke a cigarette or read a book.If that door should blow shut, I can't open it and get out of this room. I'm asdependent as a baby that doesn't know how to get anything except to cry forit." WeknowRussell is speaking for himself, andthe emotional power is overwhelming. O'Donnell's response is pitch-perfect. Russellwon an honorary Oscar, "for bringing hope and courage to his fellowveterans through his appearance." Although he was actually nominated forbest supporting actor, the Academy board voted the special award because theythought he didn't have a chance of winning. They were wrong. He won the Oscar,the only time an actor has been given two Oscars for the same role. The filmalso won for best picture, actor (March), director, screenplay, editing andscore. Aslong as we have wars and returning veterans, some of them wounded, "TheBest Years of Our Lives" will not be dated. The movie is available on DVD,but there are no bells and whistles, and it calls out for a special edition orthe Criterion treatment. I agree with Noel Megahey atDVDTalk.com: "Some otherstudios might regard a film that won eight Oscars as a major back-cataloguerelease but not MGM. The DVD presentation of the film is barely even adequateas a barebones release, with ... not a single feature to support the film'shistorical and cinematic importance."Note: The film is said to have inspired one of Samuel Goldwyn'sfamous Goldwynisms: "I don't care if the film doesn't make a nickel. Ijust want every man, woman, and child in America to see it."Advertisement