Nicholas Ray's "Johnny Guitar" (1954) is surely one ofthe most blatant psychosexual melodramas ever to disguise itself in that mostcommodious of genres, the Western. Consider: No money was lavished on theproduction. The action centers on a two-story saloon "outside town,"but we never even see "town," except for a bank facade and interiorset. So sparse are the settings that although the central character (JoanCrawford) plays the tavern owner and goes through a spectacular costume charge,we never see her boudoir -- she only appears on a balcony above the main floor,having presumably emerged from the sacred inner temple. Advertisement Acheap Western from Republic Pictures, yes. And also one of the boldest and moststylized films of its time, quirky, political, twisted. Crawford bought therights to the original novel, Nicholas Ray signed on to direct, and I wonder ifthey even openly spoke of the movie's buried themes. One is certainlybisexualism; Crawford's tavern-owner Vienna is, it is claimed, in love with"Johnny Guitar" (Sterling Hayden), but has not seen him in fiveyears. She effortlessly turns tough hombres into girly-men, and her bartenderobserves to Johnny, "I never met a woman who was more man." Herarchenemy Emma (Mercedes McCambridge) is allegedly in love with "TheDancin' Kid" (Scott Brady) and is jealous because he is allegedly in lovewith Vienna ("I like you, but not that much," Vienna tells him). Butthere is hardly a moment when Emma can tear her eyes away from Vienna to glanceat the Kid. All of the sexual energy is between the two women, no matter whatthey say about the men. Crawford wanted Claire Trevor for the role, but thestudio, perhaps having studied the script carefully, insisted on McCambridge,who was not a lesbian but played one, as they say, in the movies. Thatcasting led to more Crawford bitch legends, as on the day when she threwMcCambridge's costume in the middle of a highway. The chemistry of loathing ispalpable, as it was between Crawford andBette Davisin "Whatever Happenedto Baby Jane." Both women wear fetishistic black leather, silk and denimcostumes that would have been familiar enough to students of 1954 pornography:The tightly corseted waists, the high boots, the long shirts, the tightbodices, the lash of lipstick; give us Meg Myles in "Satan in HighHeels." Advertisement McCambridge,said to be a "cattle baron" (not baroness), dominates her posse ofcowboys and lackeys, standing before them in a wide, challenging stance. She'sshorter than they are, but is always strutting in the front while they almost cower.Crawford often appears from above on her balcony, worshipped by the camera inlow-angle, adored by her loyal employees, ordering Sam, her croupier,"Spin the wheel. I like the way it sounds." Somebodyhas to spin it. Throughout the film, the saloon attracts no ordinary customers,only characters in the plot. Has a Western ever been more casual about its maleleads? "Johnny Guitar" is about the hatred between Vienna and Emma,and Sterling Hayden seems to know it. Brought into town as fire-power when Viennafears gun trouble, he claims to have given up guns, speaks softly, talks of hisonetime love of Vienna with only barely convincing regret, and is laid-back, asSterling Hayden rarely ever is. The critic Dennis Schwartz recalls:"Francois Truffautsaid it reminded him of 'The Beauty and the Beast,'with Sterling Hayden being the beauty." Theplot. Ridiculous. Vienna owns the saloon in a choice location outside town. Weare not sure how a single woman without means paid for it, but are reminded byMarlene Dietrichin "Shanghai Express" that "it took more thanone man to change my name to Shanghai Lily." Apparently Vienna is now allpaid up. but the railroad is coming through, and the townsfolk fear it will runpast her door and put them out of business. Thetown is led by McIvers (Ward Bond) and his tool the sheriff (Frank Ferguson),who are led by Emma as they demand what Vienna knows about a stagecoachrobbery. The stolen cash was intended for her brother's bank. Since the Dancin'Kid has rejected Emma's love, it stands to reason, doesn't it, that he stuck upthe bank, along with his tough sidekicks (Ernest Borgnine, Ben Cooper and RoyalDano)? JohnnyGuitar arrives at about the same time. Coincidence? Imagine the notoriouslydeadly Old West and an unarmed cowboy with only a guitar. Well, he does play itonce. But there is a secret: Guitar is the pseudonym for Johnny Logan, anotorious gunslinger who retired five years ago. Vienna was Guitar's loveruntil he "wasn't ready" for marriage (not to her, for sure). And thesheriff, McIvers, etc. are trying to frame someone -- the Kid, maybe, forsticking up the stagecoach. Their suspicions are not unfounded, since there areliterally no other characters in the movie, except for the faceless coots whocrowd into doorways behind McIvers. Advertisement Thedynamic of their investigation and their attempts to force townsfolk to testifyagainst one another form an allegory squarely aimed at the House Un-AmericanActivities Committee, which in 1954 was trying to force alleged communists to"name names" of other alleged communists; the screenplay was ghostedby the blacklistedBen Maddow. A significant moment comes when Johnny Guitaracknowledges his own name. Thereare extraordinary moments in the movie, not least when Crawford, who has beendressed entirely in black, suddenly appears on the balcony in a stunning whitegown and cows the men with her presence and a piano recital(!). Itis also fascinating to watch her and Johnny use words as love weapons. Thisdialogue, quoted by the critic Derek Malcolm, could have appeared in thelaconic Broadway social dramas of the period:Johnny:How many men have youforgotten?Vienna:As many women asyou've remembered.Johnny:Don't go away.Vienna:I haven't moved.Johnny:Tell me somethingnice.Vienna:Sure. What do you wantto hear?Johnny:Lie to me. Tell me allthese years you've waited ...Vienna:All these years I'vewaited.Johnny:Tell me you'd havediedif I hadn't come back.Vienna:I would have died ifyou hadn't come back.Johnny:Tell me you still loveme like I love you.Vienna:I still love you likeyou love me.Johnny:Thanks. Thanks a lot.Whoa!I see Brando as Johnny,Shirley Knightas Vienna. That's not Western dialogue,it's cynicism made audible. There are other moments I will leave for you tosavor, and I trust you may share my bafflement about the route from thewaterfall to the hideout, but ponder this: Everyone involved in this movie hadmade countless other films, knew all about the clichés and conventions, andmust have known how many they were breaking. As the scenes come along that areclearly an indictment of HUAC, were they thinking they could get away withmurder because the surrounding movie was so goofy? Itwas goofy then, and very strange now. The more you think about the tavern andthe "town" and the tragedy that plays out against the unpopulatedlandscape, the more you see them playing dice with their destinies. Spin thewheel. I like the way it sounds. Advertisement