WhenCarole Lombardand the family maid discuss the newly hiredbutler, we can read her mind when she says, "I'd like to sew his buttonson sometime, when they come off." In 1936, when elegant men's formalweardidn't use zippers, audiences must have had an even better idea of what she wasthinking. The two women both have crushes on Godfrey (William Powell), ahomeless man who Lombard, competing in a scavenger hunt, discovers living atthe city dump. Lombard wins the hunt by producing Godfrey at a society ball andthen, during an argument with her bitchy sister and loony mother, hires him tobe the butler for her rich family. "Do you buttle?" she asks him, socrisply and directly that she could mean anything, or everything. Her romanticobsession is hopeless because Godfrey has transformed himself overnight from anunshaven bum into a polished, sophisticated man who prides himself on hisproper behavior. When she grabs him and kisses him, he regards her with utterastonishment. Advertisement "MyMan Godfrey," one of the treasures of 1930s screwball comedy, doesn'tmerely use Lombard and Powell, it loves them. She plays Irene, a petulant kidwho wants what she wants when she wants it. His Godfrey employs an attentiveposture and a deep, precise voice that bespeaks an exact measurement of thesituation he finds himself in. These two actors, who were briefly married(1931-33) before the film was made in 1936, embody personal style in a way thatis (to use a cliché that I mean sincerely) effortlessly magical. ConsiderPowell, best known for the "Thin Man" movies. How can such reservesuggest such depths of feeling? How can understatement and a cool, dry deliveryembody such passion? You can never, ever catch him trying to capture effects.They come to him. And Lombard in this film has a dreamy, ditzy breathlessnessthat shows her sweetly yearning after this man who fascinated her even when shethought he really was a bum. LikePreston Sturges' "Sullivan's Travels" (1941), Gregory La Cava's"My Man Godfrey" contrasts the poverty of "forgotten men"during the Depression with the spoiled lifestyles of the idle rich. The familyIrene brings Godfrey home to buttle for is the Bullocks, all obliviously nuts.Her father, Alexander (that gravel-voiced character actor of genius, EugenePallette), is a rich man, secretly broke, who addresses his spendthrift familyin tones of disbelief ("In prison, at least I'd find some peace").Her mother, Angelica (Alice Brady), pampers herself with unabashed luxury andeven maintains a "protégé" (Mischa Auer) whose duties involvedeclaiming great literature, playing the piano, leaping about the room like agorilla and gobbling up second helpings at every meal. Her sister Cornelia(Gail Patrick) is bitter because she not only lost the scavenger hunt but gotpushed into an ash heap after insulting Godfrey. And there is the maid, Molly(Jean Dixon), who briefs Godfrey on the insane world he is entering. She lovesGodfrey, too, and perhaps down deep so does Cornelia, and so might the protégé,if he didn't like chicken legs more. Godfreybuttles flawlessly, bringing Alexander his martinis a tray at a time, whippingup hors d'oeuvres in the kitchen and keeping his secret. He has one. Unmaskedby a Harvard classmate at a party, he turns out to be born rich but down on hisfortune after an unhappy romance. The Bullocks never figure out he's too goodto be a butler (or a bum) because they're all blinded by their own selfishness,except for Irene, who dreams of his buttons. Under the surface, emotion ischurning. Godfrey, having come to like and admire his fellow hobos at the dump,is offended that the Bullocks flaunt their wealth so uselessly, and that leadsto one of those outcomes so beloved in screwball comedy, so impossible in life. Advertisement God,but this film is beautiful. The cinematography by Ted Tetzlaff is a shimmeringargument for everything I've ever tried to say in praise of black and white.Look me in the eye and tell me you would prefer to see it in color. Therestored version on the Criterion DVD is particularly alluring in its surfaces.Everything that can shine, glimmers: the marble floors, the silver, themirrors, the crystal, the satin sheen of the gowns. There is a tactile feel tothe furs and feathers of the women's costumes, and the fabric patterns bydesigner Louise Brymer use bold splashes and zigs and zags of blacks and whitesto arrest our attention. Every woman in this movie, in every scene, is wearingsomething that other women at a party would kill for. These tones and texturesare set off with one of those 1930s apartments that isintendedto look like a movie set, all poisedfor entrances and exits. Ifound myself freezing the frame and simply appreciating compositions. Notice ashot when Godfrey exits screen right and the camera pans with him and thenpushes to poor, sad Irene, seen through sculptured openings in the staircaseand chewing the hem of her gown. Look for another composition balanced by alight fixture high on the wall to the right. You'll know the one. Acouple of reviewers on the Web complain that the plot is implausible. What arewe going to do with these people? They've obviously never buttled a day intheir lives. What you have to observe and admire is how gently the film offersits moments of genius. Irene has a mournful line something like, "Somepeople do just as they like with other people's lives, and it doesn't seem tomake any difference ... to some people." Somehow she implies that thefirst "some people" refers to theoretical people, and the secondrefers to other people in the room. Herfutile love for Godfrey shows itself in the scene where he's doing the dishesin the kitchen, and she says she wants help: "I want to wipe." Iknow, it sounds mundane in print, but the spin she puts on it brings buttonsback to our minds. The"implausibility" involves the complications of a theft of pearls,some swift stock market moves, and Godfrey's plans for the city dump. OK, it'sall implausible. That's what I'm here for. By pretending the implausible ispossible, screwball comedy acts like a tonic. Nothing is impossible if you cutthrough the difficulties with an instrument like Powell's knife-edged delivery.He betrays little overt emotion, but what we glimpse is impatience with somepeople who will not do the obvious and, indeed, the inevitable. Advertisement Themovie also benefits from the range of sharply defined characters, and theactors to play them. Even the biggest stars in those days were surrounded byother actors in substantial roles that provided them with counterpoint, withcontext, with emotional tennis partners. Notice here the work of EugenePallette, who bluntly speaks truth even though his family is deaf to him. ByGod, he's had enough: "What this family needs is discipline. I've been apatient man, but when people start riding horses up the front steps and parkingthem in the library, that's going a little too far. This family's got to settledown!" His voice is like a chain saw, cutting through the vapors aroundhim. Thismovie, and the actors in it, and its style of production, and the system thatproduced it, and the audiences that loved it, have all been replaced by popculture of brainless vulgarity. But the movie survives, and to watch it is tobe rescued from some people who don't care that it makes a difference ... tosome people."     The Thin Man    " is also reviewed in the Great Moviescollection.