...By general consent [one] of the best documentaries evermade.SoI wrote in 1994, in a review of what in fact is a better documentary, RayMuller's "The Wonderful Horrible Life ofLeni Riefenstahl." I wasreferring to Riefenstahl's "Triumph of the Will" (1935), about the1934 Nazi Party congress and rally in Nuremberg. Others would have agreed withme. We would all have been reflecting the received opinion that the film isgreat but evil, and that reviewing it raises the question of whether great artcan be in service of evil. I referred to "Triumph" again in thestruggle I had in reviewing the racist "Birth of a Nation." Advertisement Buthow fresh was my memory of "Triumph of the Will"? I believe I saw itas an undergraduate in college, and my memory would have been old and fuzzyeven in 1994, overlaid by many assertions of the film's "greatness."Now I have just seen it again and am stunned that I praised it. It is one ofthe most historically important documentaries ever made, yes, but one of thebest? It is a terrible film, paralyzingly dull, simpleminded, overlong and noteven "manipulative," because it is too clumsy to manipulate anyonebut a true believer. It is not a "great movie" in the sense that theother films in this group are great, but it is "great" in thereputation it has and the shadow it casts. Haveyou seen it recently, or at all? It records the gathering together, inSeptember 1934 in Nuremberg, of hundreds of thousands of Nazi Party members,troops and supporters, to be "reviewed" by Adolf Hitler. Reviewed isthe operative word. Great long stretches of the film consist merely of massedformations of infantry, cavalry, artillery groups and even working men withtheir shovels held like rifles. They march in perfect, rigid formation pastHitler, giving him their upraised right arms in salute and having it returned.Opening sections of the film show Hitler addressing an outdoor formation, andthe conclusion involves his speech in a vast hall at the closing of thecongress. Tryto imagine another film where hundreds of thousands gathered. Where all focuswas on one or a few figures on a distant stage. Where those figures were theobject of adulation. The film, of course, is the rock documentary"Woodstock" (1970). But consider howMichael Wadleigh, that film'sdirector, approached the formal challenge of his work. He begins with thepreparations for this massive concert. He shows arrivals coming by car, bus,bicycle, foot. He show the arrangements to feed them. He makes the Port-O-SanMan, serving the portable toilets, into a folk hero. He shows the crowdsleeping in tents or in the rough, bathing in streams, even making love. Heshows them drenched with shadows and wading through mud. He shows medicalproblems. He shows the crowds gradually disappearing. Advertisement Bycontrast, Riefenstahl's camera is oblivious to one of the most fascinatingaspects of the Nuremberg rally, which is how it was organized. Yes, there areoverhead shots of vast fields of tents, laid out with mathematical precision.But how did the thousands eat, relieve themselves, prepare their uniforms andweapons and mass up to begin their march through town? We see overhead shots oftens of thousands of Nazis in rigid formation, not a single figure missing, nota single person walking to the sidelines. How long did they have to standbefore their moment in the sun? Where did they go and what did they do aftermarching past Hitler? In a sense, Riefenstahl has told the least interestingpart of the story. Thereis a lesson, to be sure, in the zombie-like obedience of the marching troops,so rigidly in formation they deny their own physical feelings. One searches theranks for a smile, a yawn. But all are stern and serious, and so is Hitler,except once when he smiles as the horses are marching past. But what else doesthe film contain, apart from the "march-pasts"? There is a longseries of closeups near the beginning, of Nazi party officials mouthingofficial platitudes. There are two speeches by Hitler, both surprisingly short,both lacking all niceties, both stark in their language: The party must be"uncompromisingly the one and only power in Germany." Onesearches for human touches. Riefenstahl had no eye for human interest.Individuality is crushed by the massed conformity. There are occasionalcutaways to people smiling or nodding, but rarely ever speaking to one another.There is no attempt to "humanize" Hitler. In his closing speech,sweat trickles down his face, and we realize that there was no perspiration inearlier shots. Is it possible that he posed for some of the perfectly framedshots of him reviewing troops? A 35mm camera and crew would have been adistracting presence in the street next to his car; one filming him from a highpedestal would have had to be crane-mounted, and shot out of synchronicity withthe event. Advertisement "Ifyou see this film again today, you ascertain that it doesn't contain a singlereconstructed scene." So says Riefenstahl in her film's defense in theMuller documentary. What does she mean by "reconstructed"? Certainlywe would not think the massed "march-bys" would be reconstructed. Butwhat of such scenes as the Workers' Brigade, where the men chant in unison,presumably to Hitler, that they labor in the swamps, in the fields, etc., andthen, in response to the barked question, "Where are you from?"individuals answer with the names of their towns or districts. They could nothave all heard the question; each answer would have been a separate set-up. Thereare also questions of spontaneity. During one Hitler speech, he is interruptedbysieg heil!exactly six times, as if there were anapplause sign to prompt them when to begin and end, and we note that throughoutthe film, there are no scatterings of individual voices at the start or finishofsieg heil!Only a single massed voice, in unison.I found myself peering intently to observe other moments of the film revealingits mechanism. Although Riefenstahl used 30 cameras and a crew of 150, only onecamera appears to be visible on screen; during the outdoor rally before threegigantic hanging swastika flags, you can see the camera on an elevator betweenthe first and second, its shadow cast on the second. And in a shot of a man whohas climbed up a pole to get a better view of a parade, she cuts back to himgiving the right-arm salute; I reflected that he could not hold on without bothhands, and realized that his left foot is out of frame in both shots --standing on a support, undoubtedly. Among minor details: Everyone on screen seemsto have a fresh haircut. That"Triumph of the Will" is a great propaganda film, there is no doubt,and various surveys have named it so. But I doubt that anyone not already aNazi could be swayed by it. Being a Nazi, to this film, means being a mindlesspawn in thrall to the godlike Hitler. Yet it must have had a persuasive effectin Germany at the time; although Hitler clearly spells out that the Nazis willbe Germany's only party, and its leader Germany's only leader for 1,000 yearsto come. At the end, there is a singing of the party anthem, the Horst WesselSong; under Nazi law, the right-arm salute had to be given during the first andfourth verses. We see a lot of right-arm saluting in "Triumph of theWill," noticing how Hitler curls his fingers back to his palm beforewithdrawing the salute each time, with a certain satisfaction. What a horribleman. What insanity that so many Germans embraced him. A sobering thought: Mostof the people on the screen were dead within a few years.Note:See also "TheWonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl" and "Downfall"(2005), with a haunting     Bruno Ganz    as Hitler during his last days. Advertisement