I have been waiting for this for years: a superhero movie wherethe actions of the superheroes have consequences in the real world. They alwaysleave a wake of crashed cars, bursting fire hydrants, exploding gas stationsand toppling bridges behind them and never go back to clean up. But JohnHancock, the hero of “Hancock,” doesn’t get away with anything. One heroicstunt ran up a cost price tag of $7 million, he’s got hundreds of lawsuitspending, and when he saves a stranded whale by throwing it back into the sea,you can bet he gets billed for the yacht it lands on. Advertisement “Hancock,”the latest star showcase forWill Smith, has him playing a SkidRow drunk withsuperpowers and a super hangover. He does well, but there are alwaysconsequences, like when he saves a man whose car is about to be struck by atrain, but causes a train wreck. What he needs is a good PR man. Luckily, theman whose life he saved is exactly that. He’s Ray Embrey (Jason Bateman, theadoptive father in “Juno”), and Ray has a brainstorm: He’ll repay Hancock bygiving him a complete image makeover. If this sounds like a slapstick comedy,strangely enough, it isn’t. The movie has a lot of laughs, but Smith avoidsplaying Hancock as a goofball and shapes him as serious, thoughtful anddepressed. Embreythe PR whiz brings Hancock home to dinner to meet his wife, Mary (CharlizeTheron), and son Aaron (Jae Head). The first time she meets him, Mary givesHancock an odd, penetrating look. Also the second time and also the third time.OK, OK, already: We get it. One odd, penetrating look after another. They havesome kind of a history, but Hancock doesn’t know about it, and Mary’s nottalking. Shehas a lot to keep quiet about, although thank goodness, she eventually opens upor the movie wouldn’t have a second half. I will not reveal what she says, ofcourse, because her surprise is part of the fun. I am willing to divulge someof the setup, with Ray coaching Hancock to start saying “thank you” and “youdid a good job here,” and stop flying down out of the sky and crushing $100,000cars. Ray also gets him a makeover: Gone is the flophouse wardrobe, replaced bya slick gold leather costume, and Hancock gets a shave, too. Does it himself,with his fingernails. Heappeared some 80 years ago in Miami, as far as he knows. He doesn’t know veryfar. He has no idea where his powers came from, or why he never grows anyolder. He can fly at supersonic speeds, stop a speeding locomotive, toss carsaround, and in general, do everything Superman could do, but not as cleanly,neatly or politely. Part of his reform involves turning himself in to the lawand serving a prison term, although the chief of police has to summon him fromprison to help with a bank hostage crisis. (In prison, there’s a guy named ManMountain who must not read the papers, or he would never, ever try to makeHancock his victim.) Advertisement It’snot long after the bank hostage business that Mary reveals her secret, Hancockstarts asking deep questions about himself, and the movie takes an odd,penetrating turn. This is the part I won’t get into, except to say that theorigin stories of superheroes consistently underwhelm me, and Hancock’s is oneof the most arbitrary. Even Mary, who knows all about him, doesn’t know allthat much, and I have a shiny new dime here for any viewer of the movie who canexplain exactly how Hancock came into being. Notthat it matters much, anyway. I guess he had to come into being somehow, andthis movie’s explanation is as likely as most, which is to say, completelypreposterous. Still, “Hancock” is a lot of fun, if perhaps a little top-heavywith stuff being destroyed. Smith makes the character more subtle than he hasto be, more filled with self-doubt, more willing to learn. Jason Bateman ispersuasive and helpful on the PR front, and it turns outCharlize Theronhas agreat deal to feel odd and penetrating about.