In "Mephisto," a movie that takes place in Germanyduring the rise of Nazism, there are many insults, but the most wounding issimply the word "actor"! It is screamed at the film's hero by hissponsor, a Nazi general who is in charge of cultural affairs. We stare into theactor's face, but are unable to determine what he is thinking, or what he isfeeling. Maybe that is what makes him a great actor and an ignoble human being. The actor is played byKlausMaria Brandauer, in a performanceof electrifying power; he makes us intensely fascinated by his character whilekeeping us on the outside -- until we discover there is no inside. He plays anactor named Hendrik Hoefgen, but even that's not quite right; his real name is"Heinz" until he upgrades it. ("My name is not my name," hesays to himself, "because I am an actor.") Hoefgen bitterly revealsearly on that what he hates most about himself is that he is a "provincialactor." Eventually he will become Germany's most famous and admired actor,and the head of its State Theater, but that progression is in fact a descentinto hell. Advertisement Weshould begin by noting how particularly "Mephisto" (1981) makes itsdetails vivid: The look and feel of the theater, the rise of the Nazi Partyfrom the 1920s through the 1930s, the Berlin social life that was itself astage. The film's Hungarian director,Istvan Szabo, demonstrates that the Naziuniforms themselves seemed to transform some people into Nazis, just ascostumes and makeup can make some actors into other people. The uniforms aredeliberately fetishistic; to wear them is to subjugate yourself to the systemthat designed them. And we sense the sadomasochistic undertones that helpedseduce a ruling class into a system of evil. Thefilm opens in Hamburg, where Hoefgen is involved in a small-time theater scenethat is later described as communist, bourgeois, decadent -- everything butNational Socialist. Consumed with ambition, he throws himself into his workwith abandon. During a meeting to discuss the props for one production, hehears the words "lamppost" and flies into a manic fury, declaringthat the lamppost, and the exploited worker woman who stands beneath it,symbolize all that is rotten with Germany. He leaps from the stage into theauditorium, screaming that the lampposts will not be confined to the stage butwill extend into the orchestra! -- the dress circle! the entire theater! -- astheir revolutionary spirit unites actors and audience. The others look at himwith astonishment. Ofcourse this is all acting, posturing, calling attention to himself. Hoefgen asplayed by Brandauer has not a moment's self-doubt as an actor, although as ahuman being, he is nothing but doubt, fear and abnegation. He is ruled byambition. His first wife is the daughter of a powerful man. When the man fallsfrom grace, the wife is divorced. His early friends are left wing; later hedrops them, forgets them or tries to shield a few from the Nazis as a gesturetoward his abandoned ideals. On the day of Hitler's election, a left-wing friendasks him to join a protest movement in the theater. He can't accept, and hecan't refuse: "I'd rather stay with the reserves." In fact, his earlybeliefs are the same as his later ones; he goes from the far left to the farright without the slightest difficulty, because he never believed anything inthe first place. Advertisement Havingnot seen "Mephisto" since the early 1980s, I came back to it againthinking it was an anti-Nazi film. Not entirely. The Nazis are simply ...opportunists. Hoefgen wants to be famous, rich and admired. He purrs at praiselike a cat given cream. He can discuss with himself the rights and wrongs ofhis situation, but it is a strategic discussion, not a moral one. All of hisromances and marriages are designed to further his career, except one, whichbegins in Hamburg and continues unbroken into his Berlin days as the favoriteactor of the Reich. This is his affair with Juliette (Karin Boyd), who had aGerman father and an African mother, and as a black woman, violates all thetwisted Nazi theories of racial purity. Itbothers Hoefgen not at all that he is both a Nazi puppet and a black woman'spartner because his feelings for Juliette are not love -- and not even lust, Ithink, but a certain enjoyment of the way she understands him. She has hisnumber. They can never be seen together in public, but in her boudoir, shefreely insults him. He is such a bad actor, she says, that he can't even drinka beer like a man who wants to drink a beer. And later: "Sometimes yourcold, cheating eyes are those of a sad child." How does he respond tothat? Almost as if it is a compliment. He looks in a mirror to see if it istrue! Thekey to Hoefgen's rise is the cultural czar of the Reich, referred to only asthe General (Rolf Hoppe). He is oddly attracted to Hoefgen, and sees to it thatthe actor's leftist past is erased, he gets the best roles, he rises to leadthe State Theater. The General is well into middle age, well-fed, warm, with apleasing smile and a feminine seductiveness when he pays compliments. All untilhis brutal speech that ends with the word "actor!" Hoppe'sperformance is the ideal counterpoint to Brandauer's; the actor plays everyrole to please, and the Nazi pleases only himself, whatever it may seem. Advertisement Hoefgen'sgreat role is Mephistopheles, the devil. In a mask of stark white makeup, hetempts Dr. Faustus in the classic German drama by Goethe. "MyMephisto," the General calls Hoefgen fondly, over and over again. It is arich irony, since the General is in fact playing the Mephistopheles role andthrowing the world at Hoefgen's feet. Szabo illustrates this contrast in aremarkable scene. Between acts of "Faust," Hoefgen is asked to visitthe General's box in the theater. He does, in full makeup and costume. Below,the theatergoers turn and look up as the satanic figure with his red-lined capehovers smilingly over the Nazi in full dress uniform. Szabo ends this interludewith a shot, held just long enough, showing the entire audience standingtransfixed. They have witnessed the devil calling on the state. Inthe energy they bring to the film, Brandauer and Szabo have made a mightystatement, but it is as much about acting, I think, as Nazism. In Hoefgen, wesee an empty man, standing for nothing. This doesn't even bother him. In Parisas a spokesman for Nazi cultural affairs, he reunites with Juliette, who begshim to defect to the West. Later, on the street, he breathes the air of Francewith that smug contented smile and says to himself, "What could I do here?Freedom? What for?" Then he descends into the black pit of the Metro. Thelineage behind the story is interesting. Szabo adapted a satirical novel byKlaus Mann(son of Thomas), whose mother was a Jew and whose German citizenshipwas stripped away in 1933; he later became an American citizen. His book wassaid to be inspired by his brother-in-lawGustaf Grundgens, an actor and Nazicollaborator. Szabo himself (born 1938) is a leading Hungarian director; hiscredits include "Confidence" (1980), "Colonel Retl" (1985)and such English-language films as "Sunshine" (1999) and "BeingJulia" (2004). "Mephisto" won the Oscar for best foreign film of1981, and richly deserved it. Advertisement Asa physical production, the film is breathtaking. Szabo makes the General'soffice a throne surrounded by empty space. He creates elegant party scenes atwhich the connected people gossip about one another; they climax with aspectacular celebration at the Grunewald hunting lodge. Huge swastikas turnordinary buildings into fearful ones. The mechanism by which some people areexiled and others "disappear" is condensed into brief, fearfulautomobile rides. No effort is made to depict Hitler or German militarism orlarge-scale persecution of the Jews; all that takes place offstage, consideringthat the stage is Hoefgen's life. And Szabo ends the film with a visualmasterstroke in which Hoefgen is able at last to have the limelight all tohimself.F.W. Murnau's masterpiece of silent German expressionism,"Faust," is in my Great Movies Collection atwww.rogerebert.com.