This can be read as an Ebert blog entry with photographshere:http://tinyurl.com/bqy3oy DearAgnes Varda. She is a great director and a beautiful, lovable and wise woman,through and through. It is not enough that she made some of the first films ofthe French New Wave. That she was the Muse forJacques Demy. That she is afamed photographer and installation artist. That she directed the firstappearances on film of Gerald Depardieu, Phillipe Noiret--andHarrison Ford! Orthat after gaining distinction as a director of fiction, she showed herselfequally gifted as a director of documentaries. And that she still lives, as shehas since the 1950s, in the rooms opening off each side of a once-ruined Pariscourtyard, each room a separate domain. Advertisement Thatis not enough, because her greatest triumph is her life itself. She comeswalking toward us on the sand in the first shot of "The Beaches ofAgnes," describing herself as "a little old lady, pleasantlyplump." Well, she isn't tall. But somehow she isn't old. She made thisfilm in her 80th year, and she looks remarkably similar to 1967, when shebrought a film to the Chicago Film Festival. Or the night I had dinner withher, Jacques and Pauline Kael at Cannes 1976. Or when she was at Montreal 1988.Or the sun-blessed afternoon when we three had lunch in their courtyard in1990. Or when she was on the jury at Cannes 2005. Herface is still framed by a cap of shining hair. Her eyes are still merry andcurious. She is still brimming with energy, and in "The Beaches ofAgnes" you will see her setting up shots involving mirrors on the beach,or operating her own camera, or sailing a boat single-handedly down the Seineunder the Pont Neuf, her favorite bridge. And she has given us the most poeticshot about the cinema I have ever seen, where two old fishermen, who were youngwhen she first filmed them, watch themselves on a screen. Yes, and the screenand the 16mm projector itself are both mounted on an old market cart that theypush through the nighttime streets of their village. Ifyou are lucky you have seen her features like "Cleo from 5 to 7," or"Vagabond," or "Les Creatures," or "One Sings, theOther Doesn't" or "Kung Fu Master." Her documentaries like theone filmed all on her street, "Daguerreotypes," or her sympatheticlook at scavengers in "The Gleaners and I." Or the lovely film ofDemy's life that he wrote and she filmed, completing it 10 days before hisdeath, "Jacquot." Butif you have not seen a single film by Agnes Varda, perhaps it is best if youstart with "The Beaches of Agnes." You don't need to know anythingabout her work. She has a way of never explaining very much, and yet somehowmaking it all clear. She does this by not treating her life as a lesson inbiography, but as the treasured memories of friends. Advertisement Thisis not an autobiography, although it is about her lifetime. She closes it bysaying, "I am alive, and I remember." The film is her memories,evoked by footage from her films, and visits to the places and people shefilmed. But that makes it sound too straightforward. The film is a poem, asong, a celebration. Although she is in robust good health, she accepts, as shemust, that she is approaching the end, and je ne regrette rien. She expressesno thoughts about an afterlife, and only one great regret about this one: ThatJacques and she could not complete the journey together, as they had planned.This is a great, loving, uplifting film. It provides an ideal of a lifewell-lived. Ifshe had only been a photographer, Varda would have been a great one, with herwork in China, Cuba, Europe, America. As an installation artist, regard the"house of cinema" she constructed by hanging hundreds of long filmstrips from a framework so the sun shining through them would define the spaceinside. She stands within this space, the light playing on her, and says,"I have lived my life in the cinema." Or if that is too theoreticalfor you, consider her installation about potatoes, with Agnes herself as anadvertisement, walking the sidewalk inside a big potato. Shedoubts she had seen 10 films by the time she was 25, when she made her firstfilm, "La Pointe-Courte" (1954). That's the one with the fishermenshe went to visit again. "I thought if I added sound to photographs, thatwould be cinema," she says, adding that she had a lot to learn. She had notheory, and never desired any theory. She filmed as she felt, even in thisfirst work that boldly brings together two story lines. Its visual compositionsare compared to Bergman's in an enormously useful IMDb user comment. It starredthe great actor Phillip Noiret in his first role. Coming before the first filmsof Godard, Truffaut, Chabrol, Demy, Rivette and Resnais (who was her editor) ,it could have a claim to be the founding film of the New Wave, unlessJean-Pierre Melvilleshould be considered. Perhaps that's why Varda issometimes called the grandmother, not the mother, of the New Wave. Advertisement Shemade five short films between 1954 and 1961, before starting "Cleo from 5to 7," the first feature that gained wide attention. Her friend Jean-LucGodard had experienced enormous success with "Breathless," sometimesdescribed as the first New Wave film. His producer asked him to recommendsomeone else "like him," who could make a low-budget black and whitefilm that would tap the same market. He recommended Varda. Thefilm's title refers to the afternoon hours when French married people meettheir lovers, but Cleo (Corinne Marchand) is not simply a lover. She is asinger who fears she's dying of cancer, and we follow her as she passes timewaiting for the result of a biopsy. The film achieved much notice for the wayit photographed Cleo on real streets and in real shops with real people; whatis remarkable is that Varda achieved this not with a hand-held documentary lookbut with elegantly composed and edited shots that revealed her compositionalbackground as a photographer. Ifirst became aware of her at my first Chicago Film Festival, in 1967, where sheshowed the documentary "Uncle Janco." It involved an uncle who was apainter and lived on a houseboat in San Francisco, and one reason I remember itso clearly is that she made Janco and his life so vividly human. He isn't seenas a character or an anecdote, but as a man who has built the life he wantedto, and lives within it. Iwill not go through the Varda films I've seen one by one; but there are a few Imust mention. "Daguerreotypes" (1976) is one she filmed literallyoutside her front door. She lives on rue Daguerre in Montparnasse. Let medescribe her home, office, work space and headquarters. A big double gate opensfrom the street. Inside is a former alleyway, still wide enough for a smallcar, with two-story rooms on either side. I'm not sure what it was once usedfor--flats above, perhaps, and small shops below. There's a scene showing thespace as Varda first saw it, no water, no heat, no toilets, the courtyardjammed with junk. Each two-story unit was separate, and Varda and Demy mostlykept them that way. You have to go outside to get from one to another. Oneunit was Varda's, one Demy's, one theirs together, one for their daughterRosalie, one for their son Mathieu, offices for Demy and Varda, art studios,darkrooms, editing rooms, and so on. Confined yet spacious. Spartan luxury. Youcan open a window and call out to another room. The spaces are filled with artand fabrics of bright colors, the courtyard lined with trees and flowers. Thereis a family-sized table for outdoor meals in good weather. You will see thehome in the film, but she doesn't give you a tour and you may not be able totell how original and comfortable it us. In this home every notable figure inthe world of French film, and countless from elsewhere, and many not notablefigures, and countless new friends, have come calling for more than 60 years.Not too far away is La Coupole, the famous restaurant where French painterspaid for their supper in the late 1920s by painting the interior columns. IfVarda and Demy had established a similar policy, the rue Daguerre filmcollection would not rival the Cinematheque Francais, but it would make theMuseum of Modern Art green with envy. Advertisement Tomake her charming and compassionate documentary, Varda simply filmed herneighbors. In the 1970s, they were small shopkeepers and trades people. Today,I fear, it is tres chic,and the film preserves an earlier time in Paris. Therewas the baker and his wife. A butcher, expertly slicing steaks "not toothick" for one customer, "not too thin" for another. Anaccordion player, a laundress and, most memorable of all, a very old couple whoran a shop selling perfumes and buttons. Buttons and perfume? Yes, the old mansays. He mixes the perfumes himself. And, should a customer also happen torequire a button--voila! In"The Beaches of Agnes," Varda explains that she promised theneighbors to use her own electricity to power her camera and lights. This shedid by stringing a 90m cable through her mail slot. That was her umbilical.Everyone she filmed was less than 90 metres away. She still has the cable.There is a shot of it being pulled back through the mail slot at night. Doesn'tyour knowledge of that cable (never mentioned in "Daguerreotypes")make it almost necessary for you to see the film? ForVarda, film has been a family business. Demy of course is most famous for"The Umbrellas of Cherbourg," the all-singing musical which won thePalme d'Or at Cannes. Varda's "Vagabond" won the Golden Lion atVenice. They supported each other when needed, but kept a"respectful" distance from each other's work. Their greatcollaboration came at the end, when Demy started to write down memories of hisyouth in Nantes, and Agnes said, "Jacques, do you want me to make a filmof these?" Jacques said he did, and Agnes began immediately, that veryday. Callingon friends and collaborators, she started to film with Demy at her side andeveryone aware that he was dying. It was a period piece, with actors playingyoung Demy and the others. "Jacques" was finished with a few days tospare. She must have had a personal agenda for beginning work so quickly; rightto the end of his life, Demy was needed. There is no use in waiting passivelyto die. There could be no better demonstration of Werner Herzog's vow that ifhe knew the world was ending tomorrow, he would begin another film. Advertisement Vardahas worked frequently with her children. Rosalie has been an actress andcostume designer for her mother. Mathieu is an actor who has appeared in 46films, but his first significant role was in "Kung Fu Master!"(1988), Varda's daring balancing act about a tentative romance between a 14 yearold boy and the mother (Jane Birkin) of two of his friends. This story, writtenby Birkin and Varda, sounds undoable. It is surprisingly gentle, sweet--andfunny. Kind of a miracle. In"The Beaches of Agnes," there is a sequence in which all of herchildren and grandchildren, dressed in white, perform a slow ballet on thebeach, and Varda dances behind them, dressed all in black. And that's all Ineed to say about that. Many times when we see her in the film, she is walkingbackwards, as the film itself walks backwards through her life, and as sheperhaps sees herself receding from our view. But her films will not recede, andneither will Varda. There is absolutely no hint to suggest this is her lastfilm. 022809bert7.jpgAtIllinois I had a class that made a great impression on me, taught by the famouscritic Sherman Paul, about the organic tradition in literature. As models heheld up such as Emerson, Thoreau, Louis Sullivan, Edmund Wilson, William CarlosWilliams. These men, he said, created as a part of their lives, not as aseparate cerebral activity. My professor would have approved of Varda. Shenever studied film. She never moved in circles with Sartre, Beauvoir and othercafe philosophers who measured out their lives with coffee spoons. She simplywent to work, doing what felt right to her, filming, photographing anddesigning what came to hand. For her there is no distinction between fictionand documentary, for they are both ways of observing and feeling. Thefilm most central to her life in many ways is "The Gleaners and I,"where she ennobles a trade she traces back to the middle ages: The trade ofmoving through the places of Man and rescuing those things that can usefully beused again. When I see men moving down our alley with grocery carts, searchinggarbage bins for items of value, I do not think of the words homeless,mendicants, vagrants. Having been taught by Varda, I think gleaners. They havea life to live and a living to make, and are of greater actual use to societythan some who make millions a year. Inthat way all of Varda's films have been gleanings. Although she is happy whenone of them is successful ("Vagabond" was a big hit," sherecalls cheerfully), I don't believe a single one was made because of itscommercial prospects. They were made out of love of the art form, andconstructed by what fell to hand and seemed good to her. And now at 80 she canwalk backwards with more serenity than most of us, because she will notstumble. Advertisement