To begin with a story: Our grandson Taylor was deeply immersedin a video game on his laptop. I began to watch "The Thief of Bagdad"on DVD. At first he ignored it. Then I saw him glancing at the screen. Then heclosed the laptop and watched full time. During the spider sequence, only hiseyes were visible above the neck of his T-shirt. "That was a goodmovie!" he told me. "What did Taylor say when he found out it wasalmost 70 years old?" his mother, Sonia, asked me. "I didn't tellhim," I said. Advertisement This 1940 movie is one of the great entertainments. It lifts upthe heart. An early Technicolor movie, it employs colors gladly and withboldness, using costumes to introduce a rainbow. It has adventure, romance,song, aMiklos Rozsascore that one critic said is "a symphony accompaniedby a movie." It had several directors; as producer,Alexander Kordaleapedfrom one horse to another in midstream. But it maintains a consistent spirit,and that spirit is one of headlong joy in storytelling. Thestory is loosely borrowed from Douglas Fairbanks Sr.'s "The Thief ofBagdad" (1924), itself a great film. Fairbanks Jr. told me it was hisfather's favorite. One major change is crucial: In the silent film, the thiefand the romantic lead were one and the same, played by Fairbanks. In the 1940film, they are made into two characters. The thief, Abu, is played by theIndian child star Sabu, then about 15. The king, Ahmad, is played by JohnJustin with a Fairbanksian mustache. This is an invaluable change, for bothdramatic purposes and practical ones: The silent character needs no one to talkto. The 1940 characters become allies drawn from the top and bottom of society,making Sabu essentially the star of the film, although he doesn't receive topbilling. The most compelling character, as he should be, is the villain Jaffar,played by the German emigreConrad Veidtwith hypnotic eyes and a cruel laugh.The beautiful, passive heroine, a princess desired by both men, is played byJune Duprez. Thestory in my mind moves from one spectacular special-effects sequence toanother: the Sultan's mechanical toy collection. The flying horse. The storm atsea. The goddess with six arms. The towering genie released from a bottle.Abu's assault on the temple that contains the All-Seeing Eye. His climb up amountainous statue. The battle with the gigantic spider. The flying carpet. Halfof the shots in "Citizen Kane" used special effects, according toRobert Carringer, who wrote a book on the film. There is rarely a shot in"The Thief of Bagdad" without them. The film was a breakthrough intechnique and vision, influential in shaping the entire genre. There are feweffects in "Star Wars" (1977) that cannot be found in"Thief." Some of them, such as blue screen, were still beingperfected. Other effects, such as matte paintings, had been in use for years. Advertisement TheCriterion DVD offers interviews with three effects experts, including RayHarryhausen, who discuss the film's techniques. It is especially eye-opening tosee stills revealing the "hanging matte" technique, which creates abackground or completes a composition by suspending a matte painting in frontof the camera. The camera's 2-D eye is fooled by the painting into making ussee foreground as background. Other techniques are simplicity itself: The genieis made to tower over Abu by using an optical printer to combine a shot of thegenie (Rex Ingram) close to the camera, and Abu hundreds of feet away. Both arefilmed from a static camera on the same beach. Theuse of blue screen may seem primitive compared to today's computer-generatedanimation, but it has the advantage of using real-world subjects. The flyinghorse, for example, is a real horse, with a real actor mounted on it. Theflying carpet is a real carpet, with Abu standing on it. Both the genie and thethief seem real in all of their shots, because they are. Thepoint here is that all of the effects, supervised by the wizard Lawrence W.Butler, are used to further and deepen the story. Consider the remarkablebeauty of several scenes showing magnificent cities climbing hills in thebackground. The cities may be tinted peach or blue, which makes them all themore fantastical. They are all mattes. Onceon a visit to the Disney Studios, I met the famous matte artist PeterEllenshaw, who was a young assistant artist on "Thief." He told mehow his paintings used not only a forced perspective , but such devices asdeliberate blurring to create the illusion of depth. When two lovers arestanding in a balcony in front of a matte cityscape, it would be a mistake tomake the painting in a photo-realistic style. Its indistinct qualities make itseem farther away. Korda,a Hungarian emigre who had earlier run Britain's Denham Studios, was now anindependent, powerful in the Mayer, Selznick or Goldwyn mode. He used hisbrother Vincent as his art director, his brother Zoltan as a director. Thealready legendary art directorWilliam Cameron Menziesalso worked on the film,and is said to have directed some scenes. Together they made a film ofbreathtaking beauty. It is done so well that it does not date. Never mind thattoday similar vistas could be painted with CGI. These are so gorgeous that wecannot imagine them being improved. Advertisement Kordaoften employed others from overseas. Veidt (1893-1943) was a famous Germansilent actor who fled Hitler in 1933, became a British citizen, worked inHollywood, was a major star. Sabu (1924-63) was born in Mysore, India, and as aboy was a servant for a maharajah. In 1937, he was cast by Robert Flaherty inthe title role of the quasi-documentary "Elephant Boy," aninternational hit. He was signed by Korda, for whom he made "TheDrum" (1938), "Thief" and the great success "JungleBook" (1942). Rex Ingram (1895-1969), the genie, was a well-known African-Americanstage and screen actor who graduated from Northwestern University. He achievedfame in films like "Green Pastures" and "Cabin in the Sky." Theenergy centers on the film are clearly supplied by Sabu and Veidt, as a boybubbling with enthusiasm and innocent guile and a man steeped in bitterness andcruelty. Both performances are perfectly pitched to the needs of thescreenplay. The romance between Duprez and Justin, as the princess and Ahmad,is rather bloodless, centering on abstract vows; their greatest passion isshown in the scene where they're bound to opposite walls, and under sentence ofdeath. The same low-flame romance was mirrored in Disney's "Aladdin"(1992), greatly influenced by both versions of the "Thief," combiningAbu and Ahmad as "Aladdin." Althoughthe film had so many directors (includingMichael Powell, two Kordas andMenzies), it seems the work of one vision and that must have been Korda's. Itremains one of the greatest of fantasy films, on a level with "The Wizardof Oz." To see either film is to see the cinema incorporating everytechnical art learned in the 1930s and employing them to create enchantingvisions. Today, when dizzying CGI effects, the Queasy-Cam and a frantic editingpace seem to move films closer to video games, witness the beauty of"Thief of Bagdad" and mourn.Note:You may watch theCriterion Collection's DVD of "The Thief of Bagdad" online for $5 atwww.criterion.com/films/544.Advertisement