The first thing everyone notices and best remembers about"The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari" (1920) is the film's bizarre look. Theactors inhabit a jagged landscape of sharp angles and tilted walls and windows,staircases climbing crazy diagonals, trees with spiky leaves, grass that lookslike knives. These radical distortions immediately set the film apart from allearlier ones, which were based on the camera's innate tendency to recordreality. The stylized sets, obviously two-dimensional, must have been alot less expensive than realistic sets and locations, but I doubt that's whythe director,Robert Wiene, wanted them. He is making a film of delusions anddeceptive appearances, about madmen and murder, and his characters exist atright angles to reality. None of them can quite be believed, nor can theybelieve one another. Advertisement Thefilm opens in the German town of Holstenwall, seen in a drawing as houses likeshrieks climbing a steep hill. After a prologue, a story is told: A sideshowoperator named Caligari (Werner Krauss) arrives at the fair to exhibit theSomnambulist, a man he claims has been sleeping since his birth 23 years ago.This figure, named Cesare (Conrad Veidt), sleeps in a coffin and is hand-fed bythe crazed-looking doctor, who claims he can answer any question. Thehero, Francis (Frederich Feher), visits the show with his friend Alan (HansHeinz von Twardowski), who boldly asks, "When will I die?" The replyis chilling: "At first dawn!" At dawn Alan is dead. Suspicion fallson Cesare. Francis keeps watch all night through a window as Caligari sleepsnext to the closed coffin. But the next morning, his fiancee, Jane (LilDagover), has been abducted. Does that clear the doctor and the Somnambulistfrom suspicion? Initself, this is not a startling plot. The film's design transforms it into somethingvery weird, especially as Cesare is seen carrying the unconscious Jane and ispursued by a mob. The chase carries them through streets of stark lights andshadows and up a zigzagging mountain trail. Caligari, meanwhile, is followed byFrancis as he returns to where he apparently lives -- the insane asylum, wherehe is the ... director! Evidence is discovered by Francis and the local policethat Caligari, influenced by an occult medieval manuscript, yearned to find asomnambulist and place him under a hypnotic spell, subjecting him to his will. Acase can be made that "Caligari" was the first true horror film.There had been earlier ghost stories and the eerie serial "Fantomas"made in 1913-14, but their characters were inhabiting a recognizable world."Caligari" creates a mindscape, a subjective psychological fantasy.In this world, unspeakable horror becomes possible. "Caligari"is said to be the first example in cinema of German Expressionism, a visualstyle in which not only the characters but the world itself is out of joint. Idon't know of another film that used its extreme distortions and discordantangles, but its over-all attitude certainly cleared the way for "TheGolem," "Nosferatu," "Metropolis" and "M."In one of the best-known books ever written about film,From Caligari to Hitler,the art historian Siegfried Kracauerargued that the rise of Nazism was foretold by the preceding years of Germanfilms, which reflected a world at wrong angles and lost values. In thisreading, Caligari was Hitler and the German people were sleepwalkers under hisspell. Advertisement Idon't believe the filmscausedNazism in Germany, and whetherthey predicted it depends a great deal on hindsight. What is certain is thatthe Expressionist horror films created the most durable and bulletproof ofgenres. No other genre has box-office appeal all by itself, although film noir,also deeply influenced by Expressionism, comes close. All a horror film needpromise is horror -- the unspeakable, the terrifying, the merciless, the lurchingmonstrous figure of destruction. It needs no stars, only basic productionvalues, just the ability to promise horror. The1920s were the decade that saw the rise of the Dada and Surrealist movements.The first rejected all pretense, all standards, all sincerity. It was aprofound expression of hopelessness and alienation. It led to the rise of therelated art movement Surrealism, which cut loose from order and propriety,rejected common values, scorned tradition and sought to overthrow society with anarchy.It's said such movements were a reaction to the horror of World War I, whichupset decades of relative tranquility and order, threw the European nationsinto unstable new relationships and presented the inhuman spectacle of modernmechanized battle. After the brutality of trench warfare, it would be difficultto return to landscapes and still life. "TheCabinet of Dr. Caligari" as a viewing experience must have been unsettlingto the audiences of 1920. The original Variety review, which cheerfully revealsthe ending, tries in its stilted wording to express enthusiasm: "This hasresulted in a series of actions so perfectly dovetailed as to carry the storythrough at a perfect tempo. Robert Wiene has made perfect use of settingsdesigned by Hermann Warm, Walter Reimann and Walter Roehrig, settings thatsqueeze and turn and adjust the eye and through the eye the mentality." Advertisement Althoughthe prose suggests chiropractic, I imagine some viewers indeed felt squeezed,turned and adjusted by the images. The film today still casts its spell. Iviewed the version on a DVD from Kino, which (unusually with silent films ofits vintage) includes all the original footage. The film has not been digitallyrestored to remove all flaws, but in a way those that remain --spots, blemishes-- add to the effect. You feel as if you're watching an old record of an oldstory, which includes within itself an even older one. The original film wastinted, so there are no purely black-and-white scenes, only those mostly inshades of reddish-brown and slate blue. Wieneis fond of the iris shot, which opens or closes upon a scene like an eye. Thismakes the point that we arelookingand are privileged to witness eventsclosed to other people. He also sparingly uses a device of superimposing wordson the image to show Alan feeling surrounded by voices. Wiene's closeups leanheavily on Caligari's fierce and sinister scowl, the dewy innocence of Jane,and the wide-eyed determination of Alan. The Somnambulist is not veryexpressive -- he certainly lacks the charisma of Frankenstein's monster, who ina way he inspired -- and is most often seen in long shot, as if the cameraconsiders him an object, not a person. Thesets are presented, as they must be, in mostly longer shots, establishing theirspiky and ragged points and edges. The visual environment plays like awilderness of blades; the effect is to deny the characters any place of safetyor rest. It isn't surprising that the "Caligari" set design inspiredso few other films, although its camera angles, lighting and drama can clearlybe seen throughout film noir, for example in the visual style of "TheThird Man" (1949). RobertWiene (1873-1938) began his career in 1913 and directed 47 films, including"Raskolnikow," based onCrimeand Punishment,and thefamous "The Hands of Orlac" (1924). He fled the rise of Hitler and atthe time of his death was working on "Ultimatum" (1938), with anotherrefugee, Erich von Stroheim. Conrad Veidt (1893-1943), another refugee, made119 films and was a major star of the time, whose credits included the great"The Man Who Laughs" (1928) and of course"Casablanca"(1942), where he played Major Strasser, who met anunexpected end at the airport. (All three titles are also in my Great MoviesCollection.)Note:"Caligari"is part of Kino's excellent German Expressionism set and is availableseparately.Advertisement