In 1929, the year it was released, films had an average shot length(ASL) of 11.2 seconds. "Man With a Movie Camera" had an ASL of 2.3seconds. The ASL of Michael Bay's "Armageddon" was -- also 2.3seconds. Why would I begin a discussion of a silent classic by discussing sucha mundane matter? It helps to understand the impact the film made at the time.Viewers had never seen anything like it, and Mordaunt Hall, the horrifiedauthor of the New York Times review, wrote: "The producer, Dziga Vertof,does not take into consideration the fact that the human eye fixes for acertain space of time that which holds the attention." This reminds me ofHarry Carey's advice in 1929 toJohn Wayne, as the talkies were coming in:"Stop halfway through every sentence. The audience can't listen thatfast." Advertisement "ManWith a Movie Camera" is fascinating for many better reasons than its ASL,but let's begin with the point Dziga Vertof was trying to make. He felt filmwas locked into the tradition of stage plays, and it was time to discover a newstyle that was specifically cinematic. Movies could move with the speed of ourminds when we are free-associating, or with the speed of a passionate musicalcomposition. They did not need any dialogue--and indeed, at the opening of thefilm he pointed out that it had no scenario, no intertitles, and no characters.It was a series of images, and his notes specified a fast-moving musical score. Therewas an overall plan. He would show 24 hours in a single day of a Russian city.It took him four years to film this day, and he worked in three cities: Moscow,Kiev and Odessa. His wife Yelizaveta Svilova supervised the editing from about1,775 separate shots -- all the more impressive because most of the shotsconsisted of separate set-ups. The cinematography was by his brother, MikhailKaufman, who refused to ever work with him again. (Vertov was born DenisKaufman, and worked under a name meaning "spinning top." Anotherbrother,Boris Kaufman, immigrated to Hollywood and won an Oscar for filming"On the Waterfront.") Bornin 1896 and coming of age during the Russian Revolution, Vertov consideredhimself a radical artist in a decade where modernism and surrealism weregaining stature in all the arts. He began by editing official newsreels, whichhe assembled into montages that must have appeared rather surprising to someaudiences, and then started making his own films. He would invent an entirelynew style. Perhaps he did. "It stands as a stinging indictment of almostevery film made between its release in 1929 and the appearance of Godard’s'Breathless' 30 years later," the criticNeil Youngwrote, "andVertov’s dazzling picture seems, today, arguably the fresher of the two."Godard is said to have introduced the "jump cut," but Vertov's filmis entirely jump cuts. Advertisement Thereis a temptation to review the simply by listing what you will see in it.Machinery, crowds, boats, buildings, production line workers, streets, beaches,crowds, hundreds of individual faces, planes, trains, automobiles, and so on.But these shots have an organizing pattern. "Man With a Movie Camera"opens with an empty cinema, its seats standing at attention. The seats swiveldown (by themselves), and an audience hurries in and fills them. They begin tolook at a film. This film. And this film is about--this film being made. Theonly continuing figure -- not a "character" -- is the Man With theMovie Camera. He uses an early hand-cracked model, smaller than the one BusterKeaton uses in "The Cameraman" (1928), although even that one islight enough to be balanced on the shoulder with its tripod. This Man is seenphotographing many of the shots in the movie. Then there are shots of how hedoes it--securing the tripod and himself to the top of an automobile or the bedof a speeding truck, stooping to walk through a coal mine, hanging in a basketover a waterfall. We see a hole being dug between two train tracks, and later atrain racing straight towards the camera. We're reminded that when the earliestmovie audiences saw such a shot, they were allegedly terrified, and ducked downin their seats. Intercutwith this are shots of this film being edited. The machinery. The editor. Thephysical film itself. Sometimes the action halts with a freeze frame, and wesee that the editor has stopped work. But that's later--placing it right afterthe freeze frame would seem too much like continuity. If there is nocontinuity, there is a gathering rhythmic speed that reaches a crescendo nearerthe end. The film has shot itself, edited itself, and now is conducting itselfat an accelerating tempo. Advertisement Mostmovies strive for whatJohn Fordcalled "invisible editing" -- editsthat are at the service at the storytelling, and do not call attention tothemselves. Even with a shock cut in a horror film, we are focused on thesubject of the shot, not the shot itself. Considered as a visual object,"Man With a Movie Camera" deconstructs this process. It assemblesitself in plain view. It is about itself, and folds into and out of itself likeorigami. It was in 1912 that Marcel Duchamp shocked the art world with hispainting "Nude Descending a Staircase." It wasn't shocked bynudity--the painting was too abstract to show any. They were shocked that hedepicted the descent in a series of steps taking place all at the same time. Ina way, he had invented the freeze frame. WhatVertov did was elevate this avant-garde freedom to a level encompassing hisentire film. That is why the film seems fresh today; 80 years later, itisfresh. There had been "citydocumentaries" earlier, showing a day in the life of a metropolis; one ofthe most famous was "Berlin: Symphony of a Great City" (1927). Byfilming in three cities and not naming any of them, Vertov had a wider focus:His film was about The City, and The Cinema, and The Man With a Movie Camera.It was about the act of seeing, being seen, preparing to see, processing whathad been seen, and finally seeing it. It made explicit and poetic theastonishing gift the cinema made possible, of arranging what we see, orderingit, imposing a rhythm and language on it, and transcending it. Godard once said"The cinema is life at 24 frames per second." Wrong. That's what lifeis. The Cinema only starts with the 24 frames -- and besides, in the silent erait was closer to 18 fps. It's what you doafteryou have your frames that makes itCinema. The experience of "Man With a Movie Camera" isunthinkable without the participation of music. Virtually every silent film wasseen with music, if only from a single piano, accordion, or violin. The MightyWurlitzer, with its sound effects and different musical voices, was inventedfor movies. Theversion available in the U.S. is from Kino, and features a score by composerMichael Nyman("The Piano"). It was premiered performed by theMichael Nyman Band on May 17, 2002 at London's Royal Festival Hall. As thetempo mounts, it takes on a relentless momentum. Another score was created bythe Cinematic Orchestra, and you can hear it while viewing nine minutes of thefilm here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vvTF6B5XKxQ Afamous score was created by the Alloy Orchestra of Cambridge, Mass., whichdevotes itself to accompanying silent cinema. To mark the 80th anniversary ofthe film, the Alloy obtained and restored a print from the Moscow Film Archive,and performed their revised score in the city. They will tour with the print in2010, and on their schedule is Ebertfest 2010.The surrealist milestone "     Un Chien Andalou    " (1928), by     Luis Bunuel    and Salvador Dali, is also in my Great Movies Collection.Advertisement