In the 1920s, the golden age of silent films, millions ofAmericans bought tickets every week to see movies like "Souls forSale." It isn't on any list of great movies I've ever seen, possiblybecause hardly anyone had seen it for more than 75 years. When it has playedover the last few years on Turner Classic Movies, it's possible more people sawit than in all the decades since it was released in 1923. Thisis a prime example of the mid-range entertainment Hollywood was producing soskillfully at the time. Filled with actors who were then stars, fast-moving,entertaining, with a spectacular circus action sequence at the climax, it isdrama, melodrama, romance and satire all at once -- wrapped up in abehind-the-scenes look at how a desperate young woman fell into the moviebusiness by accident and became a star. Advertisement Thestory involves the memorably named Remember Steddon, played byEleanor Boardmanas a wide-eyed girl from a rural town who literally leaps off the train on herhoneymoon to escape her new husband (Lew Cody). He swept her off her feet in awhirlwind courtship, we learn, but now he fills her with loathing; and nowonder, because he's a snaky operator with a skinny mustache and a history ofmarrying women and killing them for their insurance money. Producedby Samuel Goldwyn, obviously not on a limited budget, it's also an exploitationof the national fascination with Hollywood and its transgressions. The FattyArbuckle scandal of 1921 would have been in audience minds as they saw themilk-fed maiden venturing into the den of iniquity. Remember's father is apreacher who lectures on the sins of the movies, and she believes what shehears. Butwhat is a girl to do? Stranded in the California desert after escaping from thetrain, she staggers under the burning sun and is close to death when she'srescued by a sheik on horseback. Is he a mirage? Not at all. He's an actormaking a film. Poking fun at Valentino, a title card notes: "The usualsheik led the usual captive across the usual desert." The girl is nursedback to life by the filmmakers and taken to Los Angeles. Alreadytwo of the movie men are in love with her:Richard Dix, as the film's director,andFrank Mayo, as the actor on the camel. But Remember is mindful of herfather's warnings and stays clear of the movies until desperation drives her toseek a job. This sets in motion a fascinating backstage story in which wefollow her as she gets past the studio gates, is rebuffed by a castingdirector, is befriended by the director and gets work as an extra. Goldwynmust have called in a lot of favors, because there are cameo roles showingCharles Chaplindirecting a scene while puffing furiously on a cigarette, Erichvon Stroheim allegedly working on "Greed" and such other stars asBarbara La Marr, Jean Hersholt, Chester Conklin and Claire Windsor. Rememberis given a screen test, miserably fails, weeps when it is screened and is toldby Dix: "If you could only cry that well on camera." Of course, shecan. He also gives her some very modern advice: "Don't try to act funny.Justfeelfunny. The camera photographs exactlywhat you are thinking of." He then helpfully promises her: "I'll makean actress of you if I have to break your heart and every bone in yourbody." Advertisement EleanorBoardman is a spirited screen presence, a big star in the decade, who marriedthe important director King Vidor and starred in his masterpiece "TheCrowd" (1928). Her female co-star in "Souls for Sale" is anothersilent legend,Mae Busch, who appeared in 131 roles between 1912 and 1947, mostnotably with Laurel and Hardy in "Sons of the Desert" (1933). Hereher character's tragedy provides Boardman's big break: The newcomer takes overher starring role after a heavy overhead lamp falls on her: "She may notwalk for a month -- if ever!" Themovie was written and directed byRupert Hughes, who was the uncle HowardHughes so fatefully decided to visit in Hollywood. He adapted it from his ownnovel, which was serialized in Redbook magazine, and judging by his titlecards, he was well aware of how absurd his plot was. After the treacheroushusband discovers his wife has disappeared from the train, he returns to hisseat and -- goes to sleep. "Why didn't he tell the conductor and stop thetrain?" a title card asks, not unreasonably. Indeed, there are times whenthe titles seem to be doing the work of "MST 3000," providing asardonic commentary on the action. One card observes: "That seasick camelis a regular osteopath." "Soulsfor Sale" provides a pointed commentary on Hollywood's practice of puttingthe schedule above all other considerations. The climactic scene takes placeduring the filming of a circus scene. A violent storm is planned to threatenthe Big Top, and a huge mounted propeller is brought in to generate wind. Ifthe director warns people not to walk into that fan once, he does it threetimes. Then a real storm blows up, lightning strikes the crew's generator, thecircus tent catches fire, Remember's evil husband turns up from his refuge inEgypt (she's afraid her lovers will discover she's already married, not knowinghe was a bigamist), and the wind machine becomes a lethal weapon. But theanimals in the menagerie are saved. Advertisement "Keepcranking until the flames grow too hot!" the director tells his cameracrew. The Big Top goes up in a spectacular conflagration, there is a violentdeath (preceded by a heartfelt speech), and then, can you believe, with anambulance hauling the deceased away, the heartless director asks Remember ifshe could possibly act in one more scene. She can. What a trouper. You can'ttell me Rupert Hughes wasn't grinning when he wrote this. Healso seems to have had an open mind about camera possibilities. In a sceneinvolving the setup for a studio scene, he hurries along with little jump cuts.His framing is fairly standard, but he doesn't overuse closeups, and theediting is brisk. The titles, when they come, are not used only for dialogue orinformation, but also sometimes seem to supply Hughes' own comments as he looksat his picture. There'sone little moment I'm curious about. Like so many silent films, "Souls forSale" is not all in black and white, but uses a great deal of colortinting. Red for the desert, sepia for indoors, blue for night, a little yellowhand-painted in for the flames of the circus tent. When Remember and the wifekiller are on the rear observation platform of the speeding train, the scene istinted for night, but when he decides they should go inside, there's a quickshot of him, still outside, tinted sepia. Why's that there? Foreshadowing? "Soulsfor Sale," popular on its release, was thought to be lost for many years.A few prints were discovered, and when the IMDb user "wmorrow59" sawone at the Museum of Modern Art, it was "badly tattered in places, with aconfusing turn in the plot at one point, which suggested that a chunk offootage must be missing." Sincethen the film has been restored; its first DVD version was released last monthby Warner Bros. and Turner Classic Movies and looked remarkably good,considering its perilous survival. A new score has been added by MarcusSjowall, part of TCM's Young Composers Competition, and the result is a livelyand funny experience, enriched by the backstage rags-to-riches story; we seelots of sets, props, costumes, cameras, crew members and, of course, that oneunfortunate overhead light. Titlecards near the end reflect the blessing of Sam Goldwyn, if not his penmanship,in praising the toilers of Hollywood for their dedication in bringing ourdreams to the screen. And despite the town's reputation, Remember Steddon willbe a virgin on her wedding day."Souls for Sale" on DVD is part of the Warner Bros.Archive Collection.Advertisement