The courtyard of the Hollywood building occupied by HumphreyBogart in "In a Lonely Place" (1950) is one of the most evocativespaces I've seen in a movie. Small apartments are lined up around aSpanish-style courtyard with a fountain. Each flat is occupied by a singleperson. If you look across from your window, you can see into the life of yourneighbor. Oneapartment is occupied by Dixon Steele, an alcoholic screenwriter who has somesuccess but is now in the midst of a long, dry spell. Across from him is LaurelGray (Gloria Grahame), a would-be actress and a smart cookie. Steele is abitter, angry man. Drinking at noon in his usual hangout, he succeeds ininsulting his agent, punching a man who is cruel to an aging has-been actor andthen getting in a fistfight with the son of a studio chief. Advertisement Thisconcise opening scene, set in a bar inspired by Bogart's own hangout,Romanoff's, establishes Dixon Steele's character and summarizes some of thethings we sense about Bogart, that enigmatic man. They both drink too much.They're both idealists who sympathize with underdogs. They both have a temper.Steele has, and Bogart was always able to evoke self-pity; remember his Dobbsin "Treasure of the Sierra Madre." Bogart was at his best inconflicted roles, at his weakest in straightforward macho parts. Steele'squalities make him an ideal partner for Laurel Gray, who has been around, knowsthe ropes and is more likely to fall for a wounded pigeon than a regular guy. "Ina Lonely Place" has been described by the critic Kim Morgan as "oneof the most heartbreaking love stories ever committed to film," and loveis indeed what it's really about. It has the look, feel and trappings of a filmnoir, and a murder takes place in it, but it is really about the dark places ina man's soul and a woman who thinks she can heal them. Ascarefully constructed by Bogart, who produced it, and directed byNicholas Ray,from a great noir novel by Dorothy Hughes, it's at pains to make its man andwomen adults who know their way around. Neither is a victim, except of theirown natures: Dixon Steele a drinker with rotten self-esteem, Laurel Gray awoman who should know better than to invest in him. Inthe film, Steele is given the job of adapting a trashy best-seller. He needsthe work, but he can't even bear to read the novel. A friendly hat-check girlnamed Mildred (Martha Stewart) tells him she loved it, and he hires her to comehome with him and tell him the story. On their way through his courtyard, theypass Laurel Gray, and Gloria Grahame is perfect in how she conveys to him thatshe notices him. The storytelling session drags on, Mildred becomes a bore, andSteele sends her away. The next morning she's found murdered. Steele, seen toleave the bar with her and with a long rap sheet involving assaults and fights,is the logical suspect. Advertisement Didanyone see Mildred leave his apartment? Yes, as it turns out, Laurel says shedid, and provides an alibi when she's brought to the police station. Somethinghappens between Laurel and Dixon in the captain's office that is unmistakable-- and later that day they act upon it, no small talk, hungry with passion andhope. Laurelgets Dixon off the sauce. He starts writing again. They're helplessly in love,a little giddy with happiness. But the possibility lingers that he did murderthe girl, and that Laurel testified for him out of instinct more than certainknowledge. An idyllic interlude on the beach suddenly turns ugly and leads toworse. We, and Laurel, are presented with the possibility that her life is indanger, especially if he drinks again. Ambiguity about the true Dixon Steeleprovides the soul of the film. The fact that they truly love each other itspoignancy. Thisis a crisp black-and-white film with an almost ruthless efficiency of style. Ittaps into the psyches of the three principals: Bogart, who bought the story toproduce with his company; Nicholas Ray, a lean iconoclast of films aboutwounded men (James Dean in "Rebel Without Cause"), and the legendaryGloria Grahame (1923-1981), whose life story inspired Peter Turner'sextraordinary bookFilm StarsDon't Die in Liverpool.Turnerwas the last of her many loves. She was married to Nicholas Ray but that endedduring the making of this film, when Ray found her in bed with his 13-year-oldson by an earlier marriage. (She and the boy, Tony, were married from 1960 to1974.) Lifeon the set was obviously fraught with emotional hazards. Ray had modeled themovie's apartment complex on an apartment he once occupied at Villa Primaverain West Hollywood. When he moved out on Grahame, I learn from critic J.Hoberman, Ray actually moved onto the set and started sleeping there. The relationshipbetween Dixon and Laurel mirrored aspects of Bogart's own with the younger,strong-willed, nurturingLauren Bacall. Yet perhaps they all sensed that theywere doing the best work of their careers -- a film could be based on thosethree people and that experience. Advertisement "Ina Lonely Place" is a superb example of the mature Hollywood studio systemat the top of its form. Photographed with masterful economy byBurnett Guffey("Knock on Any Door," "Bonnie and Clyde"), it understandsspace and uses the apartments across the courtyard to visualize the emotionalrelationship between Dixon and Laurel. Visible to each other, dependent on eachother, they never officially move in together but remain enclosed, and nomatter what they say, apart. Notice the way Guffey focuses light on Bogart'seyes during a frightening speech when he imagines how Mildred was murdered. "Youknow, Miss Gray," he says, "you're one up on me. You can see into myapartment but I can't see into yours." "Ipromise you, I won't take advantage of it." "Iwould, if it were the other way around." Bogartis so good at playing vulnerable men. It's strange he has an enduring image asa tough guy. It would be more accurate to say he was tempered by experience. Adecade before this film, in "Casablanca," he was already the mandrinking alone late at night, afraid of hearing an old song. AboutGrahame's characters there was often a doomed quality. She andLee Marvinhadan iconic scene in "The Big Heat" (1953) when he threw a pot ofboiling coffee in her face. In "It's a Wonderful Life" (1946), sheplays the grown-up Violet, who in the nightmare sequence, becomes a prostitute.She won an Oscar for "The Bad and the Beautiful" (1952), playing anactress who hates the producer who betrayed her. And she gained the unfortunatenickname "the can't say no girl" after performing that song in"Oklahoma!" (1955). Ifthere is one key element of film noir, it is the flawed hero. That, usuallyjoined with a distinctive visual style and tone, defines the genre. The hero issympathetic but weak, often haunted by mistakes in the past or fatally temptedby greed or lust. He is likely to discover himself capable of evil he had neverdreamed of, and is consumed by guilt and fear. Bogartembodies this noir quality flawlessly in "In a Lonely Place." Heplays a good man with a hot temper who can fly into a rage when he drinks. Thisgives Dixon a Jekyll and Hyde quality that Laurel awakens to, leading to laterscenes of terror. The monster inhabiting him is an acting-out of self-loathing,which infects his success and dooms his happiness. He foresees his fate when hequotes to her a line just written in his new screenplay: "I was born whenyou kissed me. I died when you left me. I lived a few weeks while you loved me."Also in my Great Movies collection: "Rebel Without aCause," "Casablanca," "Treasure of the Sierra Madre,""It's a Wonderful Life" and "The Big Heat."Written by Kim Morgan, edited by Matt Zoller Seitz, an excellentvideo essay on "In a Lonely Place":http://bit.ly/9nbNx Advertisement