Three children are born in France. One, Rene, is the son ofstruggling farmers. One, Janine, a daughter of proletarians. The third son,Jean, is born in a manor house to wealthy bourgeois. These children grow up,are educated, find occupations often against the will of their parents, andenter relationships. They don't much think of themselves as laboratory rats,but they might be surprised how consistently their behavior is consistent withthe involuntary responses of a rat. This observation is not intend as an insultto them, or to the rat. Advertisement AlainResnais' "Mon oncle d'Amerique" (1980) is one the New Wave pioneer'sbest films, a winner of the Grand Prize at Cannes. It is audacious. Beginningwith big stars of the time (Gerald Depardieu,Nicole Garcia, Roger Pierre), hetells the life stories of these three in a way that promises to be traditionalnarrative. Thenhe introduces a fourth figure. This is the much older Henri Laborit, aphysician, philosopher, and expert on evolutionary psychology. Laborit differsfrom the others in that he isn't fictional. He plays himself, he speaksdirectly to the camera, he explains his theories about human behavior and howit's often illuminated by tests involving laboratory animals. He hadconsiderable influence on American market research 50 years ago. Hisinvolvement in the film becomes its most intriguing element, elevatingmelodrama to the level of rather disturbing insight. We humans are muchconcerned with whether or not we truly have free will. There are two populartheories: (a) everything we do is predestined, either by God or as a result ofthe causes and effects of the physical laws of the universe; (b) yes, we havefree will, and can do as we choose, within the limits of practical possibility. Ihave no idea what Henri Laborit's ideas about God are. I think he believes thatour free will is more controlled than we think by instructions from the lowerlevels of our brain. We do our basic survival functioning at levels formedduring the reptilian period, from which we all descend. Our biological behavioris often determined by the conditioning of our mammalian brains, which involvehunger, lust, courtship, territorial competition, and so on. Then humans and toa lesser degree species like chimpanzees and orangutans have a level involvingmore developed cerebral cortexes. This is where we do our conscious thinking:I choose to do this, but not that.Wethink we choose. To some degree, we may be pre-inclined to choose, or evenforced to choose. Laborit narrates an experiment involving white rats in a lab.Cute little creatures. One is put in a cage divided in half by a doorway. Whenan alarm is sounded, the floor where it's standing will produce an electricshock in a few seconds. The rat quickly learns to scamper through the door toavoid the pain. Another alarm, another escape, back and forth. Simple. We woulddo the same. Nowthe door is closed. The alarm sounds. The rat scrambles desperately to escape.No luck. The electric shock occurs. After a time, the rat gives up trying toescape. It crouches hopelessly, trembling slightly from the electrical current.It is passive, defeated, no longer thinking of a way to escape because there isnone. Ah, but now it gets interesting. Two rats are placed in the same dividedcage. They quickly learn to run back and forth. The door is closed. Both ratsstruggle to escape. No luck. Then what happens? Do they give up and crouchforlornly side by side? Not at all.Theybegin fighting.Advertisement Didyou almost forget I was writing about a movie? Resnais shows his charactersgrowing up in response and reaction to their childhoods. The farm child helps tosupport his family by going to work in a textile mill. He dreams of studying inParis, but his girl friend gets pregnant and he remains in the district,eventually becoming in charge of the mill. The girl, a fervent Young Communist,rebels against her parents and runs away to join the theater. Her career goesnowhere, she become the mistress of -- the bourgeois boy, now a politician andthe head of French national radio. That's also a rebellion against her youthfulideals. The bourgeois was a devout Catholic, but he leaves his wife andchildren to live with the mistress. Another rebellion. Oh, and when the workeris demoted and shunted to a distant job, he rebels in a refusal to play alongwith the corporate plans. Soby running away from home, wife and job each of the three has exercised freewill, correct? Resnais is only getting started. In scenes which play muchbetter than they may sound, he uses humans dressed as giant white rats inreruns of key scenes from other angles. And Resnais uses Laborit's narration toanalyze other scenes. It begins to appear as if all three of these modernFrench citizens, from different social backgrounds, may have been actinginstructions beamed in from their vestigial brain centers. Thegenius of the film is that even without Laborit and his rats, "Mon oncled'Amerique" would tell an entertaining story on its own. The charactersare sympathetic (given what we know about them), the narrative iswell-constructed, and we care. But consider one sequence. In itself it isperfectly absorbing. Then see how Resnais deconstructs it. Jean was raised byhis grandfather on an island. He tells Janine he will take her there one day.Two years after they break up, they meet by chance on the island. They cross atlow tide to a little nearby island. The tide returns, but as they're returningthey pause to continue a fight, and are threatened with being stranded. Advertisement Hmm.Considering what we know about how they got together, and why and how theysplit up, and what each one knows and doesn't know, their behavior on this day,which seems so spontaneous, becomes almost compelled by the same conditioningprocess suffered by the rats. And then we cycle back through other events inthe film, seeing those in a new light. I used the word "deconstruction."That can sometimes apply to the study of films in terms of story structure,conventional devices, social meanings, and so on. What Resnais seems to behinting is that the characters in a movie, and the people who make it, andthose who watch it, may all be acting to some degree on impulses imbeddeduntold millennia ago on the shores of lonely seas. AlainResnais was born in 1922 and as recently as May 2009 won the Special Jury prizefor his new film, "Wild Grass." At the dawn of the New Wave he gainedfame for such as "Hiroshima, mon Amour" and "Last Year atMarienbad." He confessed once to me that he's crazy about comic books. Hemakes great and sometimes weighty films but is not lacking in a quixotic humor,and "Mon oncle d'Amerique" is in some ways a comedy. Also a film thathas you discussing to for long afterward, and not in the terms you use for mostfilms. Andnow my article is completed. It's about the right length, and I'll dispatch itto my editor in plenty of time. In all the years since I won my first newspaperjob in high school, I've never missed a single deadline. I like to think that'sbecause I choose not to. I wonder. And you, who are not very good about makingdeadlines, don't be too quick to blame yourself. Pin it on the turtles. By theway, the American uncle never shows up.Also in my Great Movies Collection: "Hiroshima, momAmour," "Last Year at Marienbad," "La Belle Noiseuse."Advertisement