When I was still living in Urbana, I would often take my motherfor a drive. If our way took us past the Champaign County Nursing Home, she'dinvariably say, "There's where I'm going to end up." She saw herselfold and lonely, abandoned by her only son. This was when she was only in her50s. She said she'd been shaped by the Depression, when old people for thefirst time had to "live on the county." "MakeWay for Tomorrow" (1937) is a nearly-forgotten American film made in theDepression. It tells the story my mother imagined for herself. A couple haslived happily together for 50 years. They lose their home to a bank. Their fivegrown children are sincerely sorry to hear this, but what can they do withthem? One has moved to California and is rarely heard from. The others livecloser, but don't have the space to take in two people. It is decided thatmother and father will stay with two different children, "for now."Their last night in their home is the last time they will sleep together in thesame bed. Advertisement Oh,it's not that their children don't love them. It's that they're so -- busy, youknow. Their kids will find them a place "as soon as possible," butfor a "few weeks" Lucy Cooper will share her granddaughters' room,and her husband Barkley will sleep on a son's living room sofa. He is in NewYork City, she is in a small country town. Theytalk on the phone. They write. As time passes and they wear out their welcomes,Lucy (Beulah Bondi) discovers that her son George (Thomas Mitchell) and hiswife Anita (Fay Bainter) are thinking of sending her to a rest home. It'sdecided that Barkley (Victor Moore) will take the train to California to staywith the unseen daughter. This is all "just for now," of course. Themovie is not a melodramatic tearjerker. It's so tough it might not be filmabletoday, when even Alzheimer's stories have happy endings. The director, LeoMcCarey, made his name with laughter and uplift. He was the first to pairLaurel and Hardy, he directed the best Marx Brothers' movie ("DuckSoup"), he made those films our priest sent us to see, "Going MyWay" and "Bells of St. Mary's." In the same year as "MakeWay for Tomorrow," he made Cary Grant a star in "The AwfulTruth." When McCarey won the Best Director Oscar for the latter, PeterBogdanovich tells us, he stood up and said, "You gave it to me for thewrong picture." "MakeWay for Tomorrow" film is quietly observant about the social awkwardnessof the situation. None of the children are cruel. They all speak with theirparents kindly. There are no villains. But Anita holds bridge classes in herliving room, for perhaps 20 students. When Lucy comes in to sit in a rockingchair, it creaks. The players are distracted. When she tries to make conversation,she talks about hearts, which she played instead of bridge. When Bark calls,everyone can hear her speaking into the phone, and what they hear is sad. Lucymeans well. Anita knows she does. But it's not working out. If only she wouldstay in "her" room -- which the young daughter feels territorialabout. Anita and the daughter take turns trying to shift an overlarge portraitof Bark back and forth between the bedroom and living room. When your house hasbeen "decorated," you don't want old-fashioned portraits. Advertisement Athis son's expensive New York apartment, Bark develops a cold while sleeping onthe sofa. A doctor is called, and his daughter in law quickly moves him intothe couple's bedroom, tucking him in so the doctor won't learn the truth. Hereceives a visit from the only friend he's made, an old Jewish store owner(Maurice Moscovitch) who sizes up the situation and whose reaction is perfectlysummarized by McCarey in one significant gesture only Bark can see.The fact is, old people don't fit in the modern lifestyle. The fault is withthe lifestyle, but there you have it. In traditional societies, families oftenlived in the same house, children taking over as their parents passed on. In mylife and in my family I've seen this, but you don't see it much anymore."Seniors" in TV ads are tanned, fit and sexy, playing golf, happythey planned for their futures. If they're not struck by lightning on the golfcourse, they'll grow old and sick, health costs will melt away their savings,and they'll end up living in a "home," whether it's on the county ornot. The happy stars of the Seniors ads from the 1990s aren't so photogenictoday. Yetthe movie plays fair, if you can call it that. When Lucy unsettles the studentsin the bridge class, Bondi doesn't make her cute or lovable. We catch ourselvesthinking she reallyisa nuisance. She might get on ournerves, too. Of course we always identify ourselves with the children, not theparents. In our society we think it proper that children move out on their own,and we say empty nesters are at last free to enjoy their golden years. But whatkind of a life is it is when every nest is empty? Don't old ears need to hearchirps? Thegreat final arc of "Make Way for Tomorrow" is beautiful andheartbreaking. It's easy to imagine it being sentimentalized by a studioexecutive, being made more upbeat for the audience. That's not McCarey. Whathappens is wonderful and very sad. Everything depends on the performances.Beulah Bondi was not yet 50 when she played Lucy (with makeup by WallyWestmore) and Victor Moore was 61. In appearance, movement and performance,they are very convincingly old. In the film they're around 70. That was thoughta much older age in 1937 than it seems today. Advertisement Theirchildren arrange for them to meet in the city before Bark gets on the train forCalifornia, where his daughter has "found a nice place for him. This is"only until they can get together again," of course. These lies makeit possible for us to get through life. Often we're lying to ourselves. There'sa family dinner planned for the evening, but Bark and Lucy make their ownplans. What they do and how it makes us feel is a tribute to the artists. Itisn't ramped up for easy smiles. It doesn't give us a any consolation. They'rehappy, but not deceived. The Japanese might describe their hours together asmono no aware,which is roughly "a bittersweetsadness at the passing of all things." It'ssaid this film inspired Yasujiro Ozu's "Toyko Story," the only filmthat ever made my students cry. This one might do the same. Entertainment isabout the way things should be. Art is about the way they are. The closingpassages of "Make Way for Tomorrow" depend on deep empathy betweenthe filmmakers and the characters. They respect them. These two people havespent a lifetime together, raised a family and lived in their own home untilBark got laid off. They've maintained a mutual dignity and they're not about toturn sappy now. Lookat how gently, and with what respect, they treat each other. Observe how certainstrangers, caught up in the business and pleasure of their own lives, observethis and glimpse for a second their own futures. See how strangers can be kind-- for a moment, anyway, although they too may have parents they don't haveroom for. What'sso powerful about the film is its level gaze. It calmly, almostdispassionately, regards the situation and how it plays out. No spin. It is thesame with "Tokyo Story." The most powerful films often simply showyou events without instructing you how to feel about them. It is remarkablethat a film this true and unrelenting was made by Hollywood in 1937."Make Way for Tomorrow" has just been released in theCriterion collection.Advertisement