Now that Miley Cyrus is 17, it's about time she played a16-year-old. That she does fetchingly in "The Last Song," and winsthe heart of a beach volleyball champion a foot taller than she is. Well,actually 12.5 inches. She also learns to love her dad, played byGreg Kinnear,whose aura suggests a man easier to love than, say,Steve Buscemi. She doesthis on an idyllic island paradise off Savannah, Georgia, where her dad is aclassical composer whose pastime is restoring stained-glass windows. Advertisement I was trying to remember the last time I felt the way about agirl that Miley Cyrus's fans feel about her. That would have been in 1959, whenI saw Hayley Mills in "Tiger Bay." Oh, she was something. A bravetomboy. She was 12, but I could wait. It's a bit much to ask for the sameinnocence from Miley, who has already had her first World Tour, but the factis, she does a good job of making her character Ronnie engaging and lovable.That's despite her early Alienated Teen scenes. You know it's an Alienated Teenwhen it's a lovely day on an island paradise, but she has her hands pulled upinside the sleeves of her sweater and huddles against the chill of the cold,cruel world. Ilike Miley Cyrus. I like her in spite of the fact that she's been packagedwithin an inch of her life. I look forward to the day when she squirms loosefrom her handlers and records an album of classic songs, performed with thesame sincerity as her godmother,Dolly Parton. I think it'll be a long, longtime until she plays a movie character like the free-standing, engagingheroines ofAshley Judd, but I can wait. "TheLast Song" is about how Ronnie (Miley) and her little brother Jonah (BobbyColeman) are taken by their mother (Kelly Preston) to spend the summer withtheir dad Steve (Kinnear). She blames her dad for the divorce, is sullen andwithdrawn. Ten minutes after she hits the beach (dressed in Gothic black), hermilk shake is spilled by a flying volleyball player named Will (LiamHemsworth). Talk about your Meet Cutes. Gradually she overcomes her hostilityto Men and realizes Will is a nice and honorable kid, even though he lives in avast Southern mansion with insufferable rich parents. Ronnieand Will make an attractive couple, possibly because Miley is standing on a boxbelow camera range. I suspect Hemsworth may have been cast for his appeal tofangirls, rather likeRobert Pattinsonin "Twilight." He's a littletoo tall, blonde, blue-eyed and hunky to be super plausible. He can definitelybecome a star, but it may be in thePeter O'Tooletradition; I can more easilyimagine him in a remake of "Lawrence of Arabia" than as a settledspouse in a domestic drama. MileyCyrus, on the other hand, is attractive in the way of a girl you might actuallymeet. Her acting is unaffected, she can play serious, and she works easily witha pro like Kinnear, whose light comedy skills are considerable and undervalued.She even seems sincere in the face of a plot so blatantly contrived it seemslike an after-school special. Would you believe that she and Will bond over seaturtle eggs? Advertisement Yes,she scares off a raccoon trying to raid a nest of eggs buried in the sand, andmounts an all-night vigil over them. Then she calls the aquarium, and who doyou think is the handsome volunteer who responds to the call? Standing watchtogether the second night, Ronnie and Will start talking, and it's only amatter of time until they regard together the itty bitty turtles hurryingtoward the sea. Theother big crisis of her summer is that she' a trained classical pianist, buthas just turned down a scholarship to Juilliard because her dad, you see, issuch a snake. In a world containing divorce, what's the use of Mozart? Thefilm's title relates to this situation, I believe, in some obscure way. Mileydoes, however, sing in the movie. She's mad at her dad, but not her fans. "TheLast Song" is based on the novel byNicholas Sparks, who also wrotethe screenplay. Sparks recently went on record as saying he is a greaternovelist thanCormac McCarthy. This is true in the same sense that I am abetter novelist thanWilliam Shakespeare. Sparks also said his novels are likeGreek Tragedies. This may actually be true. I can't check it out because,tragically, no really bad Greek tragedies have survived. His story here amountsto soft porn for teenage girls, which the acting and the abilities of directorJulie Anne Robinsonhave promoted over its pay scale. Themovie is intended, of course, for Miley Cyrus admirers, and truth compels me toreport that on that basis alone, it would get four stars. But we cannot all beMiley Cyrus fans, and these days you rarely hear Hayley Mills mentioned. Yet Iaward the film two and a half stars. Tobe sure, I resent the sacrilege Nicholas Sparks commits by mentioning himselfin the same sentence as Cormac McCarthy. I would not even allow him to say"Hello, bookstore? This is Nicholas Sparks. Could you send over the newCormac McCarthy novel?" He should show respect by ordering anonymously.But it seems unfair to penalize Miley Cyrus fans, Miley herself, and the nextPeter O'Toole for the transgressions of a lesser artist. Advertisement