The opening shots of the restored “Metropolis” are so crisp andclear they come as a jolt. This mistreated masterpiece has been seen until nowmostly in battered prints missing footage that was, we now learn, essential. Becauseof a 16mm print discovered in 2008 in Buenos Aires, it stands before us as moreor less the film thatFritz Langoriginally made in 1927. It is, says expertDavid Bordwell, “one of the great sacred monsters of the cinema.” Langtells of a towering city of the future. Above ground, it has spires and towers,elevated highways, an Olympian stadium and Pleasure Gardens. Below the surfaceis a workers' city where the clocks show 10 hours to squeeze out more worktime, the workers live in tenement housing and work consists of unrelentingservice to a machine. This vision of plutocracy vs. labor would have beenpowerful in an era when the assembly line had been introduced on a large scaleand Marx had encouraged class warfare. Advertisement Langcreated one of the unforgettable original places in the cinema. “Metropolis”fixed for countless later films the image of a futuristic city as a hell ofmaterial progress and human despair. From this film, in various ways, descendednot only “Dark City” but “Blade Runner,” “The Fifth Element,” “Alphaville,”“Escape From L.A.,” “Gattaca” and Batman's Gotham City. The laboratory of itsevil genius, Rotwang, created the visual look of mad scientists for decades tocome, especially after it was so closely mirrored in “Bride of Frankenstein”(1935). The device of the “false Maria,” the robot who looks like a humanbeing, inspired the Replicants of “Blade Runner.” Even Rotwang's artificialhand was given homage in “Dr. Strangelove.” Themissing footage restored in this version comes to about 30 minutes, bringingthe total running time to about 150 minutes. Bordwell, informed by the chiefrestorer, Martin Koerber of the German Cinematheque, observes that while thecuts simplified “Metropolis” into a science-fiction film, the restorationemphasizes subplots involving mistaken identities. We all remember the “twoMarias”: the good, saintly human and her malevolent robot copy, both played byBrigitte Helm. We now learn that the hero, Freder, also changes places with theworker Georgy, in an attempt to identify with the working class. Freder'sfather, Fredersen, is the ruler of Metropolis. Thepurpose of the tall, cadaverous Thin Man, assigned by Freder's father to followhim, is also made more clear. And we learn more about the relationship betweenFredersen and the mad scientist Rotwang, and Rotwang's love for the ruler'slate wife. This woman, named Hel, was lost in the shorter version for thesimplistic reason that her name on the pedestal of a sculpture resembled“Hell,” and distributors feared audiences would misunderstand. “Metropolis”employed vast sets, thousands of extras and astonishing special effects tocreate its two worlds. Lang's film is the summit of German Expressionism, withits combination of stylized sets, dramatic camera angles, bold shadows andfrankly artificial theatrics. Advertisement Theproduction itself made even Stanley Kubrick's mania for control look benign.According to Patrick McGilligan's book Fritz Lang: The Nature of the Beast, theextras were hurled into violent mob scenes, made to stand for hours in coldwater and handled more like props than human beings. The heroine was made tojump from high places, and when she was burned at a stake, Lang used realflames. The irony was that Lang's directorial style was not unlike the approachof the villain in his film. Thegood Maria, always bathed in light, seems to be the caretaker of the worker'schildren — all of them, it sometimes appears. After Maria glimpses the idylliclife of the surface, she becomes a revolutionary firebrand and stirs up theworkers. Rotwang, instructed by Fredersen, captures this Maria, and transfersher face to the robot. Now the workers, still following Maria, can be fooledand controlled by the false Maria. Lang'sstory is broad, to put it mildly. Do not seek here for psychological insights.The storytelling is mostly visual. Lang avoided as many intertitles aspossible, and depends on images of startling originality. Consider the firstglimpse of the underground power plant, with workers straining to move heavydial hands back and forth. What they're doing makes no logical sense, butvisually the connection is obvious: They are controlled like hands on a clock.When the machinery explodes, Freder has a vision in which the machinery turnsinto an obscene, devouring monster. Otherdramatic visual sequences: a chase scene in the darkened catacombs, with thereal Maria pursued by Rotwang (the beam of his light acts like a club tobludgeon her). The image of the Tower of Babel as Maria addresses the workers.Their faces, arrayed in darkness from the top to the bottom of the screen. Thedoors in Rotwang's house, opening and closing on their own. The lasciviousdance of the false Maria, as the workers look on, the screen filled with large,wet, staring eyeballs. The flood of the lower city and the undulating arms ofthe children flocking to Maria to be saved. Advertisement Muchof what we see in “Metropolis” doesn't exist, except in visual trickery. Thespecial effects were the work of Eugene Schufftan, who later worked inHollywood as the cinematographer of “Lilith” and “The Hustler.” According toMagill's Survey of Cinema, his photographic system “allowed people andminiature sets to be combined in a single shot, through the use of mirrors,rather than laboratory work.” Other effects were created in the camera bycinematographer Karl Freund. Theresult was astonishing for its time. Without all of the digital tricks oftoday, “Metropolis” fills the imagination. Today, the effects look likeeffects, but that's their appeal. Looking at the original “King Kong,” I findthat its effects, primitive by modern standards, gain a certain weirdeffectiveness. Because they look odd and unworldly compared to the slick,utterly convincing effects that are now possible, they're more evocative: Theeffects in modern movies are done so well that we seem to be looking at realthings, which is not quite the same kind of fun. Therestoration is not pristine. Some shots retain the scratches picked up by theoriginal 35mm print from which the 16mm Buenos Aires copy was made; these areinsignificant compared to the rediscovered footage they represent. There arestill a few gaps, but because the original screenplay exists, they're filled inby title cards. In general, this is a “Metropolis” we have never seen, both inlength and quality. AlthoughLang saw his movie as anti-authoritarian, the Nazis liked it enough to offerhim control of their film industry (he fled to the United States instead). Someof the visual ideas in “Metropolis” seem echoed in Leni Riefenstahl'spro-Hitler “Triumph of the Will” (1935) — where, of course, they have losttheir irony. “Metropolis”does what many great films do, creating a time, place and characters sostriking that they become part of our arsenal of images for imagining theworld. Lang filmed for nearly a year, driven by obsession, often cruel to hiscolleagues, a perfectionist madman, and the result is one of those filmswithout which many others cannot be fully appreciated.Note: Some of the restored footage shows small black bands atthe top and left side, marking missing real estate. Expert projectionist SteveKraus says this image area was lost due to shortcuts taken either in making the16mm negative or quite possibly years earlier when the 35mm print they workedfrom was made.Thisarticle is based in part on my 1998 Great Movies essay. Advertisement