Charlie Chaplinwas a perfectionist in his films and a calamityin his private life. These two traits clashed as he was making "TheCircus," one of his funniest films and certainly the most troubled. Whenhe sat down to write his autobiography, he simply never mentioned it, perhapsbecause he wanted to sidestep that entire period. Yet a delightful movieemerged from the turmoil. Whenhe released it in 1928, Charlie was long since established as the greatest starin Hollywood. He must have feared the advent of the talkies, which by bringingsound to the movies would rob him of his silence. But more than sound was onhis mind during the two years it took him to finally finish his production. Advertisement Alwaysattracted to young girls, he married the 16-year-old Mildred Harris in 1918,when he was 29. After affairs with Pola Negri and Marion Davies, in 1924 hemarried Lita Grey, who said she was 16 but may have been 15. He learned she waspregnant while preparing "The Circus," and after she sued for divorceand threatened scandal, her family scented a big settlement. They agreed on$600,000, while the IRS simultaneously determined he owed $1 million in backtaxes. Meanwhile,Chaplin had hired Lita's friend Merna Kennedy as his lead in "TheCircus"; Lita charged that they had an affair, and he also had an affairduring the same period with the great silent star Louise Brooks. There werealso rumors of wild parties, apparently true; his genitals led an undisciplinedexistence. Imention these matters to underline his accomplishment with "TheCircus." Calamities struck the production. The circus tent set burneddown. A reel of finished film was lost. His perfectionism demanded 200 takesfor a difficult scene on a tightrope. He was divorcing Grey, romancing at leasttwo other women, his funds were in disarray, the talkies were coming and yethis Little Tramp carried on unperturbed. It'sinteresting to ponder how smart the Tramp really is, and how much heunderstands the situations he finds himself in. He's sort of a Holy Fool. In"The Circus," he gets hired as a clown by accident after he proves soincompetent as a property man that he steals the laughter from the real clowns.He's the star of the circus, but has to have this explained to him by Merna,who plays the ringmaster's mistreated stepdaughter. He has no idea what madehim funny, no clear idea of why he stops being funny, and usually seems theunwitting pawn of events outside his comprehension. Thismakes him, for me, a little less inspired thanBuster Keaton, whose charactersare smart and calculating, if also beset by life's disappointments. But bothget many of their laughs by their sheer physical grace and acrobatic skills.The physical world conspires against them, and they prevail. They are oftenyearning romantics, with this difference: Buster seems a plausible mate, andthe Tramp hardly seems to possess a libido, only idealized notions. If theircomedies had been made in a more liberated time, it is possible to imagineKeaton in bed with a woman, but disquieting to think of the Tramp as a sexualbeing. Advertisement Yethere he contrives a giant crush on Merna (the character takes the actress'name). They are brought together in the first place by one of the constantmotifs in Chaplin, hunger. In "The Gold Rush," he had eaten a shoe,and now his only piece of bread is stolen by the girl, who has been forbiddento eat as the ringmaster's punishment for a bad performance. At one point, heslyly filches a baby's bun. Later, in a lovely bit of pantomime, he rehearsesfor a comic bit as William Tell's son, but grabs stolen bites of the apple.Merna and the Tramp are brought together in the first place as comrades inhunger and travail, and in the Tramp's mind, they're lovers. Thefilm is rich in sight gags. It opens with a complex pickpocket scenario,continues with a famous chase around the fairgrounds, includes a house ofmirrors scene in which multiple Tramps, cops and strangers chase one another'sreflections. One scene has him locked in a lion's cage; measures must have beentaken to assure his safety, but CGI was unknown and the lion seems real enough.The editing here, coordinating the lion and the Tramp, must have been daunting.There are also bits showing Chaplin's flawless timing, as when he wreaks havocwith the magician's elaborate tricks. Thepiece de resistance is the extended tightrope scene. The Tramp watches moroselyas Rex, King of the Air (Harry Crocker), performs on the high wire, and Mernasighs and bats her eyes. Later Rex misses a performance, and the Tramp seizesthe chance to go on the wire himself to win back her admiration. With thedevice of a secret safety wire supposedly manned by a prop man, he performsstunts that are extraordinary because of their difficulty; he uses the wire asa means of making the performance much harder than ordinary tightrope walkingwould be. Advertisement Yes,camera angles no doubt disguise his distance from the ground. Yes, there musthave been a net. Yes, the "wire" must have only been the half of it.But still, what remarkable agility, a reminder of a time when Chaplin and othergreat stars (Fairbanks, Keaton, Lloyd) did their own stunts and could be seendoing them. And the addition of the pestering monkeys is a masterstroke. Theending is rather a letdown, involving the Tramp's oddly motivated reasons forreuniting Merna and Rex. There is a comeuppance for the ringmaster, and then,of course, the familiar closing iris shot of the Tramp, alone and forlorn butwith a defiant little hop, going back on the road. Chaplinwas a considerable artist, brave and gifted, but I am in a minority in placinghim second to Keaton among the silent clowns. My reasons for that areadmittedly impulsive: I sense Keaton was the better man. Chaplin was so famous,so rich, so powerful when so young that there is a kind of conceit in theTramp, a reverse noblesse oblige. Yes, he had a miserable childhood, and in hisfilms, he often plays the friend of waifs, but there's an air of back-pattingabout it. The Buster Keaton character has his feet on the ground. He would beembarrassed to parade his goodness. He uses ingenuity rather than divinity.Chaplin's untidy love life suggests he felt he deserved whomever he wanted;Keaton in private life seems to have been melancholic because of alcoholism,but a decent enough sort with women. Butis this merely arbitrary judgment on my part? No doubt. A lesser man can make abetter film, and a great man can make a bad one. I feel Keaton's work has agedbetter than Chaplin's. His films are drier, less lachrymose, less in love withtheir hero. Audiences still snuffle on cue at the end of "CityLights," when the little blind flower girl discovers the identify of herbenefactor. I'm touched, too. But it's a set-up, isn't it? You write a movie inwhich you are the benefactor of a blind flower girl, you're gonna come outlooking great. Buster is engaged in immediate practical problems. Advertisement Irealize these are cavils. The wonderment is that we still have the silentclowns, many now available in restored versions. Almost all of Keaton, ofLloyd, of Chaplin. They were artists who depended on silence, and sound waspowerless to add a thing. They live in their time, and we must be willing tovisit it. An inability to admire silent films, like a dislike of black andwhite, is a sad inadequacy. Those who dismiss such pleasures must havedeficient imaginations. Alsoin the Great Movies Collection: "City Lights," "ModernTimes" and "The Great Dictator."