For its 60th anniversary, a restored digital presentationwill play at the Music Box, April 22-28.Theyoung priest only smiles once. It is on the day he leaves the cruel countrytown to catch a train and see a doctor. A passing motorcyclist gives him a liftto the station, and as he climbs on behind him we see a flash of the boy insidethe sad man. It is a nice day, it's fun to race though the breeze, and he isleaving behind the village of Ambricourt. Forthe rest of the time in Robert Bresson's "The Diary of a CountryPriest" (1951), the young man's face scarcely betrays an emotion. He lookssolemn, withdrawn, stunned by the enormity of his job. His faith and vocationare real to him, but the parishioners in Ambricourt scorn and insult him, andtell lies about him. He is unwilling or unable to defend himself. He cannotunderstand the hostility. He keeps a daily journal in which he records hisactions, which seem futile to him. Advertisement Thisfilm is the story of a man who seems in the process of offering himself to Godas a sacrifice. He lives only on bread, wine and a little potato soup. He givesup meat and vegetables. Whether this is because his stomach won't hold downanything else or whether his diet is destroying his health is unclear untillater. He is thin and weak, he coughs up blood, he grows faint in the houses ofparishioners, one late night he falls in the mud and cannot get up. Itis a bleak winter. The landscape around his little church is barren. There isoften no sign of life except for the distant, unfriendly barking of dogs. Hischurch and the manor of the local count are closed off behind bars, as if gatedagainst each other. Girls in catechism class play tricks on him. The localsgossip that he's a drunk, because of his diet, but we never see him drunk.Bresson often fills the frame with his face, passive, and the stare of his unfocusedeyes. "Diaryof a Country Priest" has been called one of the two greatest Catholicfilms, along with Dreyer's "The Passion of Joan of Arc." I see themboth as tragedies about true believers in the face of cruel societies. Bothlives end in death, as Christ's did. The priest goes about his duties. He saysa daily Mass, often attended by only one person -- and her motive is notspiritual. He calls on the people in his parish, so weak he can hardly speakwith them, crossing their names from a list and stumbling back into the cold. Alocal man quarrels with him about the cost of his wife's funeral. People sneerat him as "the little priest." Hetries to counsel the governess of the count's daughter, who the count is havingan affair with. The count insults him. The daughter is angry with her fatherand everyone else. The countess knows of the affair but doesn't care; she losther son at a young age, and is still in mourning. In the great scene thatsupplies the center of the film, the priest urges the countess to have faithand accept Christ's love, and she undergoes a remarkable spiritual rebirth.Even this conversation is lied about and held against him. Advertisement RobertBresson does nothing in a superficial way to please his audiences. The rewardsof his films unfold slowly from their stories, and pierce deeply. He is veryserious about human nature and the indifference of the world. He is not aCatholic but an agnostic who values any consolation his characters can find, inor out of faith. Hisvisual strategy doesn't break scenes down into easy storytelling elements butregards them as unyielding facts. In this film he opens and closes manypassages with old-fashioned iris shots, reproducing the act of opening our eyesto the world, seeing its reality, and closing them again. There is a lot ofbackground music, some of it vaguely spiritual, some of it saccharine, all ofit more ironic than consoling. The look seems dark and depressing at first, buthis films live not in the moment but in their complete length, and for the lasthour I was more spellbound than during a thriller. Bresson does nothing to makeme "like" the priest, but my empathy was urgently involved. Bresson(1901-1999) was one of the great figures in the French cinema. In 50 years hemade only 13 features. I saw the final one, "L'Argent," at the 1983Cannes Film Festival, and recall that the press screening was unlike those ofmost directors; you would have thought the critics were in church. It is ironicthat his films are more deeply spiritual than, in my opinion, anyone else's. Hedid not believe, but he respected belief, and hope. Notfor his characters the consolations of tidy plots and snappy conversations.They are faced with the existential dilemma: What is the point of life when itsdestination is death? In "The Diary of a Country Priest," the younghero welcomes the advice he receives from the local doctor and the old priestof a nearby parish. The doctor examines him, observes all the local people havebeen weakened by the alcoholism of their parents, warns him is undernourished,admonishes him, "face up to it!" The priest (as only a French priestmight) attributes some of his problems to the fact that he doesn't drink betterwine. The priest's advice is kind, practical, involved with the management of aparish. He treats the young man like a son. We sense he is a good old man and agood priest, but wary of devotion carried to dangerous extremes. Thestar of this film, Claude Laydu, can hardly be seen to act at all. In life hewas quite lively, and indeed hosted a TV show for children. Bresson had afamous theory that actors were "models." He didn't require them toact, and indeed would repeat a shot time and time again to remove visible signsof "acting." The scenario, the visual strategy and the editing wouldencompass his story. The actor must not seem too proactive because hischaracter is after all only a figure pushed here and there by life and fate.This sounds like a severe artistic discipline, but the result can be purifying.After emerging from one of his films, you may sometimes see conventional movieacting as foolish: The characters actually believe they can influence theoutcome! Advertisement Afilm like "Diary of a Country Priest" gathers its strength as itcontinues. There's always the sense that Bresson knows exactly where he's goingand the simplest way to get there. Consider the devastating effect of thepriest's journey to visit a specialist in Lisle. We never even hear the seconddoctor's opinion. We learn it through the journal, read aloud, as all throughthe film key moments are narrated. After leaving the doctor's office the priestgoes to visit a friend of his from the seminary, now living a secular life inpoverty because of illness, and seeks this man (who is living in sin) because heis still, after all, a priest, and can offer consolation and absolution. Onething we are sure of is that the "little country priest" takes hisvocation and faith very seriously. Nor does the film question them. It is aboutprecisely the dilemma we must all face: How far can our ideas support us in theapproach to death? The young priest's ideas prove to sustain him in the finalmoments, but they did little earlier to console him. He leaves behind a worldof cruelty and petty ignorance. He did nothing deserving blame.Notes: The hand and handwriting in the film belong to Bresson."The Diary of a Country Priest"is in national release in 2011 in a new digitalpresentation commissioned for its 60th anniversary. In my Great Movies seriesI've also written about Bresson's "Pickpocket" and "Au HazardBalthazar."