"Stagecoach" is a film in which two great careers wererenewed. Although he had appeared before in many films, as an extra, a stuntmanand then an actor in B films, this wasJohn Wayne's first starring role in afilm byJohn Ford. For Ford, it was a return after some years to a genre aboutwhich his ideas had grown--the genre in which he would make many of hisgreatest films. With Ford's clout as a director and Wayne's clout as a star,they would make iconic films and establish themselves as one of the legendarypartnerships in cinema. Advertisement They came together at a propitious moment in Ford's career. Hewas 45. He had directed his first silent films (ten of them!) in 1917. He hadtasted great success, and won an Academy Award for directing "TheInformer" in 1936. But now came his years of triumph. No director of thesound era made more great films more quickly than Ford did when he followed"Stagecoach" with "Young Mr. Lincoln" and "Drums Alongthe Mohawk," all three in 1939, and then made "The Grapes ofWrath" and "The Long Voyage Home" in 1940 and "TobaccoRoad" and "How Green Was My Valley" in 1941, collecting in thatperiod three nominations and two Oscars for directing. Fordhad his eye on John Wayne from the days when he was called Marion Morrison,nicknamed Duke, and was a football player from USC, working summers at 20thCentury-Fox. In the decade before "Stagecoach" Wayne worked in some40 Westerns, from an extra to a lead, without distinguishing himself. Fordthought he had the makings of a star, and decided Wayne was right for the keyrole of the Ringo Kid in "Stagecoach." The studio was adamantlyopposed to the casting; it demanded a name actor. "Pappy" Fordimperiously insisted. And Wayne made an impression that would change his lifeand one day win him a place on a U. S. postage stamp. Seentoday, "Stagecoach" may not seem very original. That's because itinfluenced countless later movies in which a mixed bag of characters are throwntogether by chance and forced to survive an ordeal. The genre is sometimescalled the Ark Movie. The film at times plays like an anthology of timelessclichés. You will see a woman going into labor as a doctor orders, "Boilwater! Hot water! And lots of it!" You will meet a prostitute with a heartof gold, and an evil banker, and a shifty gambler, and a pure-hearted heroine,and murderous Apaches, and a sultry Indian wife, and a meek little travelingman, and a chase scene with a stagecoach driver going hell for leather. Youwill see saloons, corrals, vast landscape, camp fires, and the U. S. Cavalry--whichsounds the charge before riding to the rescue. Advertisement Despitethe familiarity of these conventions, "Stagecoach" holds ourattention effortlessly and is paced with the elegance of a symphony. Forddoesn't squander his action and violence in an attempt to whore for those withshort attention spans, but tells astory,during which we learn to know the characters and become invested in them. Hedoesn't give all the key scenes to the same big star. Top billing went toClaire Trevor, as Dallas, the lady of pleasure. ("Dallas?" One isreminded ofMarlene Dietrich: "I didn't become Shanghai Lil in onenight.") Trevorwas a star, but Ford gave nearly equal weight to the other passengers in thestagecoach, all played by actors who would have been familiar to movie audiences:Squeaky-voiced Andy Devine as the driver,John Carradineas the elegantgambler,Thomas Mitchellas the alcoholic Doc Boone, Louise Platt as thepregnant soldier's wife, and Donald Meek as the effeminate Mr. Peacock, atraveling salesman who improbably wears a checkered deerstalker hat in the OldWest. As they line up facing each other, the Ringo Kid sits on the floorbetween them, but Ford somehow never frames him to seem lower. Confinedfor a good deal of the film inside the stagecoach, these gifted actors create afascinating community as they gradually reveal their hidden reasons fortraveling in great discomfort though hazardous Indian territory. The Ringo Kid,Wayne's character, is a wanted murderer being taken to prison by a U. S.Marshall (George Bancroft). As the others pointedly shun the prostitute Dallas,he insists on her being given a drink of water and a place at the table, andhis courtliness is manly and good-hearted. Of course he falls in love with her,and it inspires one of the great scenes: Advertisement RingoKid: "I still got a ranch across the border. There's a nice place--a realnice place... trees... grass... water. There's a cabin half built. A man couldlive there... and a woman. Will you go?" Dallas:"But you don't know me--you don't know who I am." RingoKid: "I know all I wanna know." Theway Wayne says that embodies his effortless authority. He says it and you don'tdoubt he means it. Indeed, the impression he makes here suggests he was perhapslucky to avoid such a high-visibility role earlier in his career. He was 32when he made this film, tall and slim, and had outgrown the almost improbableboyish beauty of his youth. He could growl and take a position and hold hisground and not talk too much, and he always sounded like he meant it. SimonCallow writes in his biography ofOrson Wellesthat Welles saw"Stagecoach" 40 times before he made "Citizen Kane." Thetwo films are hardly similar. What did Welles learn from it? Perhaps most ofall a lean editing style. Ford made certain through casting and dialog that thepurpose of each scene was made clear, and then he lingered exactly long enoughto make the point. Nothing feels superfluous. When he deliberately slows theflow, as for a song performed by Yakima (Elvira Rios), the wife of an outpostboss, we understand it as the calm before a storm. (Howard Hawksuses a quietsong byDean Martinin the same way in "Rio Bravo.") Fordnever makes the mistake of cutting so quickly that the sense and context of anaction sequence is lost. The extended stagecoach chase always makes sense, andhe allows his camera to be clear about the stunt work. Consider thisextraordinary stunt: An Apache leaps from his own horse onto the stagecoachteam, straddling the lead horses. He is shot. He falls between the horses tothe ground, and the horses and stagecoach pass entirely over him. No CGI here;he risks his life. Wayneis the hero of the film, but not an "action hero." He was manifestlya bad man; the "Ringo Kid" doesn't get his picture on Wanted postersfor nothing. But he never suggests evil, and seems prepared to be taken toprison even though he has many opportunities to escape. There is the suggestionhe stays with the stagecoach because he is needed to protect its passengers,especially the two women. We see here Wayne's extraordinary physical grace andcapacity for tenderness, and understand why Ford later cast him as "TheQuiet Man." Advertisement Twoscenes in particular. Wayne in left foreground, leaning against a wall as hewatches Dallas walk away from him down a corridor. Observe his body language.The way he looks after her and then straightens up and follows her. And later,look at Ford's lighting and composition as Dallas, in foreground in themoonlight next to a fence, stands alone and the Ringo Kid, in background, thesmoke from his cigarillo back-lighted as a backdrop, approaches her. Thatwas a studio shot. But much of the movie is shot on location in Ford's belovedMonument Valley, its prehistoric rock pillars framing the smallness of men.Ford returned again and again to the valley, where his casts and crews lived intents and were fed from a chuck wagon; he valued the distance from meddlingstudio executives. He was a dictator, and in that vastness his word was law. Thefilm's attitudes toward Native Americans are unenlightened. The Apaches areseen simply as murderous savages; there is no suggestion the white men haveinvaded their land. Ford shared that simple view with countless other makers ofWesterns, and if it was crude in 1939 it was even more so as late as "TheSearchers" (1956), the greatest Ford/Wayne collaboration. Only in hisfinal film, "Cheyenne Autumn" (1964) did he come around to morehumane ideas. Perhapsbecause of his long association with Wayne, Ford is often seen as aconservative. In fact he was an outspoken liberal, the standard bearer againstCecil B. DeMille's attempt to force a loyalty oath upon the Directors' Guildduring the McCarthy witch-hunt. Ford was not a racist, nor was Wayne, but theymade films that were sadly unenlightened. Within "Stagecoach,"however, beats a humanitarian heart: None of the occupants of the coach istaken for granted or dismissed casually. They are all given full weight intheir mutual dependence. This is a very civilized Western.A restored print of "Stagecoach" has been released onBlu-ray in the Criterion Collection. Also in my Great Movies series: Ford's"     The Grapes of Wrath    " and "     The Searchers    ," and Wayne's "RedRiver" and "Rio Bravo."