No one would ever accuse Alfred Hitchcock's "Shadow of aDoubt" of being plausible, but it is framed so distinctively in theHitchcock style that it plays firmly and never breaks out of the story. Lateryou question the absurdity of two detectives following a suspect from New Yorkto California, apparently without being sure of how he looks, and hangingaround idly outside his residence for weeks while chatting up the suspect'sniece; one of them eventually even proposes marriage. Nor are we convinced thatthe niece, believing her uncle is a killer of old ladies, would allow him tobuy her silence by promising to leave town (because his guilt would "destroyher mother"). Advertisement One of Hitchcock's favorite subjects was The Innocent ManWrongly Accused. In "Shadow of a Doubt," there's no possibility ofinnocence. It's clear from the outset that Uncle Charlie (Joseph Cotten) is thenotorious "Merry Widow Killer," and more than once Hitchcock cuts tonightmarish fantasies of (presumably) merry widows waltzing. We first seeCharlie lying on top of his bed, smoking a cigar, when told by his landlady twomen had been asking for him. He sees them standing on the corner downstairs,packs a bag with cash, leaves the house and boldly walks right past them. Thisdemonstrates they don't know what he looks like, but not why they wouldn't beinterested inanyman leaving the boarding house. Theincompetence, and apparently unlimited expense account, of these two cops isone reason the action can span several weeks. Charlie'speppy niece Charlotte (Teresa Wright), nicknamed "Young Charlie"after her uncle, has idolized him for years, and complains to her family thatlife wouldn't be so dull if he paid them a visit. Amazingly, that day theyreceive a telegram telling them to expect him. In a well-known shot Hitchcockshows Charlie's train arriving beneath an ominous cloud of black smoke. He hasarrived in Santa Rosa, California, a paragon of small towns that could havemodeled for Norman Rockwell'sSaturdayEvening Postcovers. Thetown and the Newton family play major roles in the film, and may revealHitchcock's own inner feelings. He shot in late 1941 and early1942, at theoutset of World War II, at a time when he was unable to visit his dying motherin London because of wartime restrictions. He later credited the friendlinessof the town for making this the most pleasant of all his film locations. Hisemphasis on the comfy Newton home, a chatty neighborhood, a corner cop whoknows everyone's name, the nightly meals around a big dining table--all add upto a security that both he and Uncle Charlie were seeking, and Charlierhapsodizes about the joys of home and family. The visiting uncle is so quicklyembraced by the town there is even a ceremony in his honor. Advertisement Whatwe begin with, then, is the innocent Newton family and the sinister uncle, whomoves into Young Charlie's room at the top of the stairs. Also in the familyare her father Joseph (Henry Travers), her mother Emma (Patricia Collinge), andher young sister Ann (Edna May Wonacott) and brother Roger (Charles Bates).Travers was in his late 60s and Collinge around 50 when the film was made, andthey look on the old side for Ann and Roger's parents but about right for themovie's apple pie symbolism. The next door neighbor, who drops in withoutknocking, is Herb (Hume Cronyn, in his movie debut). He and Joseph are crimebuffs and spend much time in debates about methods of committing a perfectmurder. Their asides are funny in themselves, and more so because of UncleCharlie's discomfiture. His preferred method is strangulation with his barehands. Sonow everyone is onstage. The uncle, the family, the neighbor, the cops (notablythe good-looking younger detective Jack, played byMacdonald Carey, who fallsin love with Young Charlie). With Uncle Charlie seemingly content to spend therest of his life in Santa Rosa, Hitchcock needed something to create a shadowof a doubt, and I suppose his MacGuffin this time is a story in the newspaperabout the Merry Widow Killer. This story might have passed unnoticed if UncleCharlie didn't unwisely and unsuccessfully try to conceal it. That triggersYoung Charlie's growing suspicion that there must be more to her uncle than itappears. Charlie has a dark side to his nature, a way of narrowing his eyes andseeming threatening, that is later, somewhat awkwardly, accounted for by a headinjury when he was young. Theengine of the plot then involves Young Charlie's suspicion and her uncle'sparanoia and clumsy attempts to murder her--as if that would accomplishanything more than confirming the suspicions of Jack the cop. As plots go, thisone is not a Hitchcock masterpiece, but it works because it generates suspense;how close to the truth will the niece come before she's killed or proven right?During the running length of the film the elements all mesh efficiently; it'slater that the weaknesses grow evident. Advertisement Muchof the film's effect comes from its visuals. Hitchcock was a master of theclassical Hollywood compositional style. It is possible to recognize one of hisfilms after a minute or so entirely because of the camera placement. He usedwell-known camera language just a little more elegantly. See here how he zoomsslowly into faces to show dawning recognition or fear. Watch him use tilt shotsto show us things that are not as they should be. He uses contrasting lightedand shadowed areas within the frame to make moral statements, sometimes inanticipation before they are indicated. I found while teaching several of hisfilms with the shot-by-shot stop-action technique, that not a single shotviolates compositional theory. Notmany directors were fonder of staircases than Sir Alfred. They impose ahierarchy of power and weakness. A character at the top of the stairs can seemto loom or be in danger of toppling, depending on whether the POV is high andlow. The flow at the house goes up the sidewalk, onto the porch, through thedoor and directly up the stairs. There are outside stairs in the back, and bothstaircases are used for tight little sequences of threat and escape. Notice howmany variations of camera angles and lighting Hitchcock uses with the stairs.He considered them an ideal device for introducing imbalance into otherwisehorizontal interiors. So important were they to him, so memorably used, that Ican name some of his titles and if you've seen them you will instantly recallthe stairs: "Notorious," "Psycho," "Strangers on aTrain," "Frenzy" and of course "Vertigo." JosephCotten and Teresa Wright do all the heavy lifting in the acting department. Theother characters are bundles of clichés. One of Hitchcock's inspirations forthe film was Thornton Wilder's "Our Town," inflaming his yearning fordomesticity at a time when Britain was already at war. In a way there are twomovies here: A Hitchcock, and a nostalgic small town fantasy. So innocent isthe town that Uncle Charlie walks into the bank where Joseph Newton ispresident, deposits tens of thousands of dollars in bills from his briefcase,and Joseph never asks a question. The Newtons aren't given much to suspicion.The two detectives at one point cook up a harebrained story that they'reworking on a national survey that requires them to photograph the roomsAmericans live in. Of course they hope to begin with the Newton residence, andUncle Charlie's room. The front and back stairs come much into use here. Howmany bankers' families would believe that story? Advertisement Cottenhas one of the best scenes of his career, in a dinner tale conversation. Hisdark side takes over, and he finds himself saying these extraordinary words:"The cities are full of women, middle-aged widows, husbands dead, husbandswho've spent their lives making fortunes, working and working. And then theydie and leave their money to their wives, their silly wives. And what do thewives do, these useless women? You see them in the hotels, the best hotels,every day by the thousands. Drinking the money, eating the money, losing themoney at bridge. Playing all day and all night. Smelling of money. Proud oftheir jewelry but of nothing else. Horrible, faded, fat, greedy women... Arethey human or are they fat, wheezing animals, hmm? And what happens to animalswhen they get too fat and too old?" I think that may be the most eloquenceHitchcock ever allowed a killer.