Sarah Palin lacked the preparation or temperament to be oneheartbeat away from the presidency, but what she possessed in abundance was theability to inflame political passions and energize the JohnMcCaincampaignwith star quality. That much we already knew. What I didn't expect to discoverafter viewing “Game Change,” a new HBO film about the 2008 McCain campaign, washow much sympathy I would feel for Palin, and even more for John McCain. The movie is largely told from the point of view of two McCainadvisers,Steve Schmidt(Woody Harrelson) and Nicolle Wallace (Sarah Paulson).Schmidt was instrumental in the selection of Palin (Julianne Moore) as therunning mate of McCain (Ed Harris), and Wallace was another senior adviser.During the campaign, they share their concern as Palin reveals a comprehensivelack of knowledge about current events. Advertisement In the days before Palin's selection, it seemed so much simpler. McCain's innercircle shared a fear of Barack Obama as a formidable opponent. They had littleenthusiasm for McCain's preference for running mate, Sen. Joe Lieberman, acentrist independent from Connecticut. As they saw Obama drawingrecord-breaking crowds, Lieberman's appeal seemed tepid. What McCain needed,they became convinced, was a “game changer,” a vice presidential candidate whowould alter the landscape. On paper, the governor of Alaska was ideal. In person, she had delightfulcharisma. It's made clear in the film that Schmidt and his team did only asuperficial background check on her, and later Schmidt was to berate himself fornot asking her a single policy question. McCain, persuaded that she might bethe game changer he needed, went along. Doubts began to form before the GOPconvention, but they were swept away by her triumphant speech accepting thenomination. Backstage, the McCain troops hugged themselves with delight. Watching that speech at home, I remember thinking, “Obama's in real trouble.”Some GOP pundits confessed they had crushes on her. Palin's crowd appeal wasenormous. She went overnight from being an obscure governor to being asuperstar. Then reality began to sink in: Palin knew virtually nothing aboutcurrent events, world politics, history, geography. Wallace and Schmidt sharetheir astonishment: She didn't know what the Fed was. She thought Korea was onecountry. She believed Queen Elizabeth was the British head of state. In preparation for her first debate with Democratic VP candidate Joe Biden, shehopelessly shuffled file cards and retained little. In an interview with KatieCouric of CBS, she came across as a deer caught in headlights. She had such anindifference to facts that she repeated the same errors (about the Bridge toNowhere, for example) no matter how often the staff corrected her. She knew anapplause line that would please audiences, and that was enough for her. But hold on a moment. Am I simply repeating a slanted partisan view? Decide foryourself if you see the film. Adapted from a best-selling book with the sametitle by John Heilemann and Mark Halperin, it draws on hundreds of interviewswith McCain camp insiders, and although Palin's supporters are protesting itsnegative portrait, the facts and dialogue seem to be accurate. When Newsweek'sDavid Frum asked Schmidt what he thought about the film, he said it was “anout-of-body experience.” Neither he nor Wallace (who confessed that afterworking with Palin she was unable to vote for McCain) has questioned itsaccuracy. Advertisement Palin was transformed by discovering her ability to mesmerize crowds. She grewintoxicated by her power and rejected guidance from advisers. Nothing like thishad ever happened to her before. Exhilarated by the adulation she dreweverywhere she went, she was wounded by questions from Couric and others, whichshe considered hostile “gotcha!” attacks. Tina Fey's celebrated skits on“Saturday Night Live” hurt her deeply. She found herself loved and ridiculed atthe same time. In her performance, Julianne Moore doesn't do an impersonation of Palin here,in the sense thatMeryl Streepwas uncanny in her resemblance to MargaretThatcher in “The Iron Lady.” She looks about as much like Palin as she can, butthat's not the point. She conveys the essence. In a way, she's unprotected. Nota hardened, cynical politician, but a woman who has gone through life expectinggood things and usually found them. There is a moment in “Game Change” whenshe's alone, and we see the hurt and sadness in her eyes when she realizes thatpeople are finding her lacking. She's like a student who studied hard for theexam and failed anyway. The people love her. Alaska still loves her; that's whyshe's so urgent about the results of an Alaska poll on her popularity. Why arethese media creatures being so cruel? Why is everyone picking on her expensivewardrobe? She didn't want the damn fancy clothes in the first place. Mooreconveys these feelings with tenderness and subtlety. Her performance is not abarbed parody, but based on the actress' instinctive empathy with a character. As John McCain, Ed Harris has more of a supporting role. He comes across in “GameChange” as a decent man of principle, who has honorable ideas about how acampaign should be conducted and sticks to them. There is a suggestion that heblames himself along with his staff for failing to vet Palin properly; theywere too blinded by her appeal to take the time for a cool evaluation. The film avoids scenes involving the personal lives of the Palins and McCains.Spouses are seen but rarely heard. Palin is depicted as an affectionate mother.This is proper, because the sources for the book and film were expert on thecampaign itself, but it wouldn't be appropriate for them to supply informationabout private lives. Woody Harrelson makes Steve Schmidt a pillar at the center of the story, a mandriven by frustration as he tries to manage a campaign that Palin is trying tomanage herself. As late as election night, they had a shouting match becauseshe wanted to join McCain onstage, where her own concession speech would joinhis. Schmidt roars at her: “It's never been done that way in American history!The candidate concedes!” As she walks onstage with McCain, his eyes are stillshooting daggers at her as a warning not to grab the microphone for a few wordsof her own. Advertisement Sarah Palin was, Schmidt concluded, the greatest actress in the history ofAmerican politics. Abandoning any attempt to brief her before the debates, hehit on the idea of assigning her 25 statements that she would memorize, andthen circle around to no matter what the question was. This she didbrilliantly. She may have been a bad candidate, but she was a brilliantcampaigner, astonishing the staff by her ability to save situations that lookedperilous to them. Seeing “Game Change” is like living again through the campaign of 2008. Much ofthe dialogue is literally words we've already heard. We're left with theconviction that Sarah Palin would have made a dangerously incompetent presidentof the United States, and that those closest to her in the campaign, includingJohn McCain, came to realize that.