When they were leaving the world premiere of G. W. Pabst's film"Pandora's Box" (1928), Louise Brooks could hear her name in thecrowd around her, but she didn't like the tone they were using. She asked Pabstwhat they were saying. He translated: "She doesn't act. She doesnothing." This perhaps delighted the great German director, who also choseBrooks to star in his next film, "The Diary of a Lost Girl" (1929). Inher autobiographyLulu inHollywood,one of the mostcharming and honest books about the movies ever written, Brooks says Pabstrefused to discuss the details of a performance with her and never held groupdiscussions with his actors: "He wanted the shocks of life to releaseunpredictable emotions." Nor did he encourage his actors to associate withone another. "Every actor has a natural animosity toward every otheractor, present or absent, living or dead," she writes, and Pabst used thattension to enhance the emotions in a scene. She tells another story. In thescenes in their films where Brooks wears thin dresses or nightgowns whiledancing with an actor, he forbid her to wear anything under them. "No onewill know," she told him. "The actor will know," he said. Advertisement Innot acting, in "doing nothing," Louise Brooks became one of the mostmodern and effective of actors, projecting a presence that could be startling.Among those who know the movies, It might be true to say that Brooks is oneactor who still, to this day, inspires deep affection. She is so simple, sodirect, sothere.Watching her fourth-billed in"The Show-Off" (1926), I watched her effortlessly steal every sceneshe was in. The others were there in front of the camera. She seemed actuallyin the scenes. Idon't mean to suggest that in "not acting" Brooks was wooden orrobotic. There was no doubt when she was expressing sadness, happiness,enthusiasm, fear. But she suggested an unusual degree of self-possession; inthe middle of a happy scene, the others might act out mirth, but her reactionwould be more one of regarding it, recognizing it. Her job as an actress wasn'tto lead us in the proper reaction. It was to observe its reality. Fancyhair styles were not for her. She had that crisp pageboy bob thatVidal Sassoonpilfered 25 years later. She had those strong, straight eyebrows, unlike thecoy arches of her contemporaries. She was so slender and fit she seemed poisedfor flight. The most extraordinary things happened to her in her best films,and instead of visibly reacting and telegraphing emotions, she acted as theinstrument to transmit them to us. She encourages identification to an unusualdegree. By1928 she was one of the best known movie stars in the world, but she was fed upwith Hollywood and too smart for the way the industry treated actresses. Shewas brought to Berlin by Pabst, who was tired of overeager actresses; he hadworked in 1925 with Greta Garbo, another restrained performer. Together theymade two of the greatest of silent films. They were both scandalous for theirportrayals of lesbianism and prostitution, and after returning to Hollywood sheoffended the sensibilities of a company town by turning down the lead in"Public Enemy" oppositeJames Cagney. She made several unsuccessfulfilms in the 1930s, and then, she writes in her book, "I found that theonly well-paying career open to me, as an unsuccessful actress of thirty-six,was that of a call girl." One of her clients was William S. Paley, thefounder of CBS, who sent her a check every month for the rest of her life. Advertisement TheFrench film critics rediscovered her; as often, they were ten years early intelling Americans what was best about our movies. In its article Wikipediaquotes Henri Langois, founder of the Cinematheque François and the greatinfluence of the auteur school: "There is no Garbo, there is no Dietrich,there is only Louise Brooks!" It is well known that James Card, filmcurator for George Eastman House, found her in New York in the late 1950s,bonded with her, brought her to live in Rochester, encouraged the writing ofLulu in Hollywood,and launched the second life ofher career. He found her "living as a recluse," Wikipedia says, butbecause of Paley's loyalty she was not precisely on Skid Row. A veteran filmpublicist named John Springer told me: "At a dinner party at my house onenight, Card said he would give anything to find Louise Brooks. I told him hemight not have to look too hard: She had the apartment across the hall." "Diaryof a Lost Girl" was the close of her glory days. It's not the equal of"Pandora's Box," but her performance is on the same high level. Ithas a frankness that would largely disappear from mainstream films after therise of censorship in the early 1930s. She plays Thymian, an innocent younggirl we meet on the day of her First Communion. Her family lives upstairs overher father's drug store, which is managed by a man named Meinert (the actorFritz Rasphas a lupine face and cruel smile). It is revealed that her fatherhas made the family's young maid pregnant, and she is thrown from the house.The next maid, Meta, observes that the father can be seduced, and efficientlydoes so. Thymianfeels shut out at home as her father and Meta start a new family. She becomespregnant by Meinert, and the scandal is too great for the bourgeois family;after her child's birth Thymian is sent to a cruel "reformatory" runby a sadistic lesbian taskmaster of a woman and her towering, shaven-headedhusband. Running away with another girl, she finds her way to a whorehouse,where the grandmotherly madam makes it clear what Thymian's duties will nowconsist of. Oneof the clients is Count Osdorff, an old friend of her family and a wastrelwhose half-hearted attempts to help the girl come to nothing. In an ending ofunrestrained irony, Osrorff's wealthy uncle marries Thymian, who now becomes amember of Society for the Rescue of Endangered Female Youth. The Society pays avisit on the whorehouse, where Thymian attempts to play the reformer roleexpected of her, but finally rises up in wrath. Advertisement Onenotable element of the film is that it's entirely the story of Thymian, just as"Pandora's Box" was entirely the story of Lulu. Louise Brooks didn'thave a personality or screen presence that lent itself to supporting roles. Ifboth young women are victims, neither is helpless, and the men who wouldexploit her find their evil turned against them. In a world of cruelty, theBrooks characters stand as enduring figures. How she accomplishes this is themystery of her acting. "The great art of films," she wrote,"does not consist of descriptive movement of face and body but in themovements of thought and soul transmitted in a kind of intense isolation."Also in my Great Movies Collection: "Pandora's Box."