The French have a name for the events leading up to a death byguillotine. They call it "the ceremony." Although Claude Chabrol's"La Ceremonie" (1995) contains no guillotines, there is a relentlessfeeling to it, as if the characters are engaged in a performance that can haveonly one outcome. It comes as a surprise to all of them, and to us. But giventhese people in this situation, can we really say in hindsight that we'resurprised? Chabrol,a founding member of the French New Wave who died in September 2010 having made54 features, is sometimes said to be influenced by Hitchcock, perhaps becausemany of his characters become involved in murder but few of them make it aprofession. It often comes into their lives as the result of a psychologicalcompulsion set in action by particular circumstances. Advertisement "Ofcourse, murder always heightens the interest in a film," he told me in1971, at the New York Film Festival. "Even a banal situation takes onimportance when there's a murder involved. I suppose that's why I choose towork with murder so often. That's the area of human activity where the choicesare most crucial and have the greatest consequences. On the other hand, I'm notat all interested in who-done-its. If you conceal a character's guilt, youimply that his guilt is the most important thing about him. I want the audienceto know who the murderer is, so that we can consider his personality." Thatleads to the question: Does he let us know who will commit murder(s) in"La Ceremonie?" I think he does, although there will be some in theaudience who are surprised that anyone in the film is killed. Assuming thatsome must die (this is a film by Chabrol, after all), it is obvious who theymust be. That's why I won't issue a spoiler warning: This isn't a who-done-it.It's more about how the two murderers do something together that neither wouldbe capable of doing by themselves. So"La Ceremonie" is about murder. It is also about faces, two in particular.They belong toIsabelle Huppert, as Jeanne, the rude postmistress in a smallFrench town, andSandrine Bonnaire, as Sophie, a young women who comes to thetown seeking work as a maid. In these roles they share a facial quality bothoften display: They have an almost maddening secrecy. There is also adifference: Jeanne seems all-knowing, cocky, dominant. Sophie, submissive,grateful for attention, doesn't seem very bright. When she's told something,she has a way of turning her head slowly and letting it sink in beforereacting. The film consistently plants hints of a secret Sophie conceals -- ahandicap I will not reveal -- that indicates that her ability to hold a jobindicates she has a gift for deception. Huppert,the busiest major actress of her generation, wears so well in so many differentroles because she only reluctantly reveals a character's feelings. She leavesit up to us to figure them out; there may be some play-acting involved, but wesense that most is hidden. Above all she's ideal for characters with anenormous stubborn determination that she holds very much inside. Chabrol hasused her seven times, most inevitably in the title role of "MadameBovary." Bonnaire'sface can be equally concealing, but she is better at seeming vulnerable. Hergreat early role was in Agnes Varda's "Vagabond" (1985), the story ofa young office worker who walks away from her job and sets off optimisticallyto backpack around French. When he's found dead in a ditch some months later,we wonder why she continued to fall, and fall, when she had many opportunitiesto save herself. She will never tell us. Advertisement Thefilm opens with a job interview. She meets with a wealthy bourgeois wife namedCatherine Lelievre (the bilingualJacqueline Bisset) in a cafe. They have tea.Catherine explains that she lives in an isolated house in the country, with herhusband Georges (Jean-Pierre Cassel) and their son Gilles (Valentin Merlet).Melinda (Virginie Ledoyen), his daughter by an earlier marriage, sometimescomes to visit. They require a live-in maid and cook. All very well withSophie, who takes command of the interview with almost imperiousself-confidence. She has her papers, her letter of reference, her salaryrequirement. An isolated house is no problem. At the end of their conversation,it's almost as if Sophie dismisses Catherine. Wesee the large, luxurious country estate. Its stone walls contain a servicewing, so that family and servants live privately. Everyone gets along at first.In contrast to her manner in the cafe, Sophie seems quiet and submissive here,performing her tasks and then going to her room. There she seems a differentperson, a naive adolescent, sitting on the floor, leaning against the bed,hypnotized by whatever happens to be on TV. Oneday she accompanies Georges into the village, where she meets the postmistress,Jeanne. Huppert seems instinctively to sniff out some quality in Sophie thatputs her on alert. She contrives opportunities for them to meet, She is hungryfor gossip about the Lelievre family. She has class-conscious scorn for theircomfortable lifestyle. She especially believes Madame Lelievre is stuck up andinsufferable. Weare watching a seduction. Despite our expectations that lesbianism is possible,it isn't sexual, but has to do with power. Jeanne senses a weakness in Sophie,a secret, and perhaps believes she can make the other young woman herinstrument -- to do what, remains to be seen. With nothing in particular inmind, Jeanne knows she will be able to control Sophie in a mutual action.Jeanne drives out to the house frequently, and they meet in Sophie's room,sneaking up the back stairs, devouring TV programs; when the Lelievres discoverher in the house, Georges explodes. Earlier, he accused her of opening hismail. Now he forbids them to see one another. Jeanne's eyes narrow. Georges hastaken a fatal step. Advertisement Earlierin the film, Georges discovered alarming background details about both women.Earlier, in other towns, they were touched by two deaths -- Sophie's father,and Jeanne's young daughter. There is no particular reason to believe eitherwomen was responsible for these deaths, but Georges' research into provincialnewspapers indicates there was a certain amount of suspicion. Well, are theymurderers? Chabrol never declares himself, and that sets up one of the mostdisturbing scenes in the movie. Giggling like schoolgirls with a crush, the twotease each other that they know the other's secret, and the secret is murder.Neither denies it. We suspect one, maybe both, are innocent. By passivelyallowing such things to be said about them, they create a titillating tensionin the relationship. We begin to understand that regardless of whether eitherhas committed murder, together they are certainly capable of it. Chabrolis at home in the world of the wealthy, and does an effortless job of showingthe Lelievre family, confident, affectionate, dining in style, appreciatingfine wines, lining themselves up all four on a sofa to watch an opera by Mozarton TV. This is a contrast to the two young working-class women upstairs, whoserelationship and the TV they watch is attuned to Sophie's simplistic mind.Assuming Jeanne is much smarter than Sophie, what we see taking shape is an actof resentful violence, in which the childlike maid is the murder weapon. Thefilm implacably moves toward a horrifying conclusion.The "La Ceremonie" DVD is available via Netflix. Alsoin my Great Movies Collection: Chabrol's "     Le Boucher    ."