In Variety, the showbiz trade paper,it's known as a "product shortage." Variety can afford to take thelofty view. But to the hapless moviegoer parting with his dollars, what we'regoing through right now is an epidemic of terrible movies. The Christmasreleases have all come, and most of them have gone. The big Easter movies won'topen until April 9. And in the meantime, exhibitors are showing movies theyknow in their hearts are trash. Here's a typical specimen: "The Loves andTimes of Scaramouche." I can't say I wasn't warned. "This movie isincredibly lousy," the ticket-seller told me cheerfully. "Are youreally going in to see this crap?" asked the friendly ticket-taker. Andjust after I'd settled down in the dark and taken my coat off, a fellowmoviegoer somewhere in the theater yawned loudly and drew applause. Advertisement "Scaramouche" is the sort of film that sits on the shelf for months,even years, until movies get so scarce that it finds itself on a release schedule.Maybe it wasn't even intended to be released, but functioned primarily as a taxshelter. Everyone making the movie gets paid, the investors get their write-offand who cares if the movie's ever seen? In this particular case, the best partsof the movie are on exhibit in the current Playboy, which has a photo layout onUrsula Andress. Buy the magazine, save the price of admission and get aninterview with Jerry Brown thrown in free. The movie looks like a third-raterip-off of Richard Lester's "The Three Musketeers," a second-ratemovie to begin with. It starsMichael Sarrazinas the swashbuckling Scaramoucheand Miss Andress as the Empress Josephine, and it has one of those peculiarbudded-in-Europe sound tracks that sounds as if everyone's in the next room.Complex plot points are made in dubbed dialog during long shots, so you can'tsee which character's lips are moving. And during the stirring sword fightscenes, of which there are a great deal too many, the sound track effectivelykills any possible excitement by giving us songs sounding as if the SwingleSingers had mated with Muzak. I didn't stay for the whole movie, which is sortof unusual; I like to sit through even the worst films in the hopes of findingthings more atrocious than I've already seen. With something like "TidalWave" or "One Billion Years B.C." there are likely to be laughseven in the awfulness of the material. But "Scaramouche" had such adeadening quality - it was so lacking in energy and invention and wit - thatsomehow I knew there was no hope. As Variety would also put it: "Midwaythrough pic, scribe ankled." I learned one thing, though: Few bad moviesare so dreadful as a bad movie that's supposed to be funny. With a bad moviethat's supposed to be serious, there's almost always something to laugh at(like Lorne Greene in "Tidal Wave," solemnly informing the UN GeneralAssembly, "If 90 million human beings are drowned, that would be a greattragedy"). But when we're supposed to laugh, when hammy Italian actors arerolling their eyes at us and chasing each other around with barber's scissorsand falling into carts full of watermelons, what can we do but despair? Thereare, 17 shopping days left until April 9.