Here is the saddest film I have ever seen about the life of awoman. It begins on a chill dawn when the heroine wanders, her face behind afan, until encountering some of her fellow prostitutes. "It's hard for a50-year-old women to pass as 20," she observes. She says it has been aslow night: She was only picked up by an old man, who took her into a candlelitroom filled with young men. "Look at this painted face!" he toldthem. "Do you still want to buy a woman?" To be held up as a moralspectacle is a cruel fate for a woman who has been treated immorally almostevery day of her life, and who has always behaved as morally as it was withinher power to do. Advertisement Thewomen find a friend who has built a fire, and huddle around it. "I heardyou served at the palace," another prostitute says. "What has led toyour ruin?" Saying "do not ask about my past," she walks awayfrom them and wanders into a Buddhist temple. One of the images of the Buddhadissolves into the face of a young man, and then a flashback begins that willtell Oharu's life from near the beginning. Herlife is the fate in microcosm of many Japanese women for centuries, in asociety ruled by a male hierarchy.Kenji Mizoguchi, its director, was assympathetic with women as any of his contemporaries, even Ozu, who whom he isoften ranked. He made prostitutes a frequent subject, as in his "Street ofShame" (1956). He was known to frequent brothels, not simply to purchasefavors, but to socialize with their workers; it made a great impression on himthat his own sister, Suzo, who raised him, was sold by their father as ageisha. The same thing happens to Oharu in this film. Thecharacter is played byKinuyo Tanaka, who appeared in 14 of his films, and thisone, made in 1952, helped redirect her career from early years as in ingénuetoward more challenging roles. One of her strengths as Oharu is her success atplaying the same character over a period of 30 years. AsOharu's flashback begins, we learn she was born in respectable circles, and wasa lady in waiting at the court when she and a young page (Toshiro Mifune) fellin love. This was forbidden, the page was condemned to death, and Oharu and hisfamily were exiled. Her father never forgives her for this, and indeed afterthe scandal she becomes unmarriagable in respectable circles. There is a briefrespite when he is able to sell her as a concubine into the household of LordMatsudaira. Her duty there is to bear him an heir, which she does, but then iscoldly sent back into poverty and prostitution. Her father, who now considersher entirely in terms of her wage-earning ability, sells her as a courtesan, atwhich she balks, and finally sells her into service as a maid to a lady whouses elaborate wigs to conceal from her husband that she is half-bald. Sheloses this job because one of her employer's customers recognizes her from theshimabara (red-light district) and makes crude jokes which reveal herbackground. Nowcomes a deceptive respite from her misery. She meets a nice man, a maker offans, and settles in peacefully, but he is killed. She receives no legacy. In aconvent, she tells the superior she wanted none: "All I want is to be anun and be near to Buddha." In the convent, there is an ambiguous scene. Aman who knew her comes to demand repayment for a gift of cloth she was given,and in a fury she strips off her clothing and hurls it at him. Her nudity isreflected only in the man's eye, but the discovery of this event leads to herbanishment from the convent. Advertisement Allof this time she dreams of seeing the son she gave birth to, but when thisfinally happens she is allowed only to get a glimpse of him sweeping past as agrand man, oblivious to her existence. That brings us back to her current life,as a cold, hungry, unsuccessful prostitute. Althougha good deal of the film is shot in a straightforward way, some of it from Ozu'sfavorite the point of view of a person seated on a tatami mat, Oharu is oftenseen from a high-angle view well above eye level. In camera grammar this tendsto diminish and objectify the subject, and Oharu increasingly comes to seemless like an autonomous character and more like a subject for study--and pity. "Asthe story goes," the superior told her on arrival at the convent,"the morning's pretty face is a corpse by evening." Thestory as I have outlined it sounds like a lurid melodrama, but "Life ofOharu" studiously avoids taking advantage of the sensational aspects ofher life. It is all told as a sad memory of fate, and paced by Mizoguchi toavoid any sensational story climaxes. His attentive use of period locations,costumes and rituals makes his heroine's experiences more like enactments of aritual. A great deal of the story's pathos comes from the fact that no oneexcept Oharu knows the whole of her life history; she is judged from theoutside as an immoral and despicable women, and we realize this is no more thanthe role society has cast her in, and forces her to play. Wewatch the film in disbelief. Surely no women could have such misery thrust uponher through no fault of her own? Mizoguchi makes no attempt to portray any malecharacter--even the father--as a self-aware villain. The men behave within theboundaries set for them and expected of them by the traditions of theirsociety. Even the fan maker does so, but because of the independence given himby his occupation, society allows him more choice--or perhaps simply doesn'tcare. KenjiMizoguchi (1898-1956) is today named as one of the three greatest Japanesedirectors, along withAkira KurosawaandYasujiro Ozu. Kurosawa, considered themost "western" by the Japanese, was the first to gain world widefame, with such readily accessible films as "Rashomon," "TheSeven Samurai" and "Yojimbo." Ozu was considered "too Japanese,"until the critic Donald Richie famously took a group of his films to the VeniceFilm Festival, and found, as he expected, that they had a universal appeal. (Myfeeling is that the more specific a film is, the more widely it may beunderstood). Advertisement Mizoguchiwon Western praise earlier than Ozu. His "Ugetsu Monogatari" (1953)won the Venice Film Festival, and twice appeared on Sight & Soundmagazine's ten-yearly poll of the greatest films of all time, which pointed meto him in the early 1970s. But it was "Life of Oharu" that he consideredhis best film, perhaps because it drew from roots in his own life. Themost influential Western writing on Mizoguchi is an essay by Robert Cohentitled "Why Does Oharu Faint?" The British critic who signs as"Kubla Khan" writes of it: "Oharu faints thrice in 'The Life ofOharu,' and on all occasions, wakes up feeling kinder and more forgiving… Cohensays that Oharu's spiritual transcendence is gained after 'she abandons hergender identity and sexuality,' and in a sense, her victory is onlypyrrhic." He adds that is "is far more interesting and appealing thanany spiritual excuse that could account for how Oharu has become a saintlycharacter and her fainting spell at the beginning and in the end is more aphysical and psychological surrender to the awful life that she has lead tillthen." Yearsbefore the rise of feminism in the West, the great directors of Japan wereobsessed with the lives of women in their society. No woman in a Japanese filmthat I have seen is more tragic and unforgettable than Oharu.The film's Criterion edition is streaming on Hulu Plus. It canbe viewed in in nine parts via non-Criterion but quite good edition on YouTube.Mizoguchi's "     Ugetsu    " and "     Sansho the Bailiff    " are alsowritten about in my Great Movies Collection, which includes many titles by Ozuand Kurosawa.