There's a scene in the original "Cat People" (1942) where a woman goes  swimming at an indoor pool after hours. The stairwell is lit, and she  senses something scary approaching. An ominous growl rips through the  silence. She leaps into the pool for escape. DirectorJacques Tourneurshows us the wavery reflections on the ceilings, the walls, and then  cuts back to the woman in the pool, and it one of the most terrifying  sequences in cinema and you don't seeanything.  First-time writer/director Blair Erickson's "The Banshee Chapter" pulls  off a similar trick: the film is filled with inky-black shadows pierced  by the dim blue glare of flashlights, and shadowy cavernous spaces  overwhelming in their sense of menace, and the fear really lies in what  is not seen. Like "Cat People", "The Banshee Chapter" is both elegant  and terrifying. Advertisement "The Banshee Chapter" starts out documentary-style, with words on the  screen informing us of the secret CIA program from the 1950s and 1960s  codenamed Project MKUltra, which involved chemists and doctors injecting  hallucinogenic drugs into people in order to study the results. MKUltra  was officially sanctioned in 1953 and halted twenty years later.  Records of this program are hard to come by (in the wake of the  Watergate scandal, CIA director Richard Helms ordered all MKUltra files  destroyed), although there were Senate hearings on the topic in 1977,  led by Ted Kennedy. One of the goals listed on a surviving MKUltra  document was to give people "substances which will promote illogical  thinking and impulsiveness to the point where the recipient would be  discredited in public" or, even more comforting, "materials which will  cause temporary/permanent brain damage and loss of memory." Paranoia was  obviously at an all-time cultural high point during the years of  MKUltra, and the project is still swathed in secrecy and conspiracy  theory. "The Banshee Chapter" shows us some of the Senate hearings, as  well as grainy interview footage with one of the doctors who appeared to  not have considered the moral implications of what he was doing. After the compelling and creepy beginning, there is a somewhat awkward  segue into the nuts-and-bolts of the story. We meet a budding  investigative journalist named Anna (Katia Winter) who wants to find out  what happened to her college buddy James (Michael McMillian). James is  shown in "found" video footage, about to take a mind-altering drug, the  same one used in MKUltra, as research for a chapter in a book he is  writing. His friend holds the camera, and we watch James drink down the  bright blue liquid and wait to see what will happen. James quickly  becomes freaked out, saying that something "is coming", the found  footage goes to alarming static, and when the event is over (which we  never see in its entirety), James has vanished off the face of the  earth. And the friend is now being held for questioning in the police  station. Where did James go? Is he alive? What was he referring to when he said  "something was coming"? And what exactly was that blue liquid? Anna's  investigation leads her deeper and deeper into the complicated  sub-culture of American conspiracy theorists and abandoned desert  compounds where the government did bad bad stuff once upon a time, as  well as "numbers stations", strange shortwave radio stations that  broadcast indecipherable stuff, static and beeps and also, on occasion, a  female childlike voice intoning weird chants. And while the word  "banshee" is never actually said in the film, that's what seems to be  coming out of the numbers stations, the voices of those mythical  creatures who wail when someone is about to die. Advertisement Anna looks through James' notes for his book and comes across all of  this information about Project MKUltra. She also finds a letter to  James, providing him with the mysterious blue liquid, and it is signed  only, "Your friends in Colorado." A colleague of Anna's recognizes that  as a book title by a notorious wild-man writer named Thomas Blackburn  (played byTed Levine, in a really fun performance). Blackburn is  clearly modeled onHunter S. Thompson, although there is some Ken Kesey  andTimothy Learythrown in there too. Blackburn wrote about  hallucinogenic drugs in the '60s and was constantly behaving in violent  and crazy ways, shooting his assistants and getting thrown out of  parties. Anna wonders if this now reclusive author knows anything about  Project MKUltra and James, so she tracks him down to a seedy bar in the  middle of the desert. The two of them join forces. Yes, Thomas Blackburn was the "friend in  Colorado" who sent the nice young writer a sample of the blue stuff. No,  he never met James. No, he doesn't know where he is. Thomas Blackburn  lives in a house filled with skulls and American flags and the spines  of animals hanging from the ceiling. Thomas, Anna, and Thomas' friend  Callie (Jenny Gabrielle) decide to take the blue liquid themselves, to  see if they can understand what happens to those who ingest it. Some of  the action that follows was almost unbearably scary, mainly because it  mostly takes place in pitch-blackness with only glimpses of what is  going on. "The Banshee Chapter" works slowly, takes its time, behaving as a  typical "whodunit" at first, with our fearless heroine squinting at  computer screens and leafing through clues. Katia Winter, familiar to  television audiences for her work in "Sleepy Hollow" and "Dexter", is a  wonderfully intelligent presence, thoughtful and worried, complex and  cunning. Events start to spiral, and Thomas and Anna are deeper and  deeper into the maze, with that terrifying "something", the "something"  that everyone who took that blue drug seemed to encounter, on their  trail. Advertisement Structurally, the film is a bit of a mess. The cinematic point of view  is unclear. It feels like a fake documentary at times, with a roaming  floating camera going from face to face, but then there are also clear  establishing shots that take a more omniscient point of view. There's  one scene where Anna goes out into the desert by herself to try to pick  up one of those creepy "numbers stations" on the shortwave radio, and at  times we see her speaking into her own video camera, but that format is  abandoned to also give us medium shots of her at the wheel of the car.  So it's a bit confused, and Erickson can't seem to decide which way he  wants to go from scene to scene. But that really becomes irrelevant because the film works its magic, its  dark and awful magic, so that when we get to the final scene that takes  place in the abandoned installation that was once the headquarters of  Project MKUltra, we are wiped out, we are wrung dry from the  high-pitched terror keening through the entire picture. The shadows are  so black, the flashlight beams so dim and fragile, and nobody, nobody  can see for sure what is really out there.