G.B.F., an acronym for "gay best friend," isn't  exactly OMG material. Not with this rather quaint premise: An  accidentally outed teen's companionship is fought over by a highly  competitive trio of status-conscious clique queens as if he were a rare  Birkin clutch. It's not as if  directorDarren Stein, who treaded similar territory with 1999's "Jawbreaker", and first-time screenwriterGeorge Northyaren't entirely  unaware of this less-than-haute situation. One plot twist actually  finds an exasperated character declaring, "What is this, 2008?" Yet  when something as highbrow mainstream as "Downton Abbey" boasts a  closeted-male storyline, the news that homosexuals are just like us  seems about as fresh as reruns of "Modern Family". Advertisement Still,  once this self-consciously campy fairy tale stops trying so hard to  emulate every high-school comedy and TV show from the past 30 years and  relaxes into a stream of clever repartee and amusing situations,  it eventually offers enough LOL opportunities to deserve a  passing grade. With its  fruit-punchy color scheme and bouncy soundtrack, "G.B.F." also earns extra  credit for skirting any outright malice in its treatment of the types  of characters who typically are the villains (thinkRachel McAdamsin  "Mean Girls") and allowing them the room to stretch as humans as well. North Gateway, the suburban academic  institution at the center of the story, has no known gay personage among  its entire student body. Glad to be under the radar is Tanner (Michael  J. Willett, who knows how to work a charming smile), an introverted  comic-book geek whose lack of stereotypical fabulousness is milked for  much humor. Meanwhile, his more flamboyant friend Brent (Paul Iacono, as  swishy as a feather boa) is angling to make a splash as the first among  his peers to announce his preference for other males. Technology  foils Brent's plans when the leader of the school's gay-free  Gay-Straight Alliance employs a GPS-like phone app to hunt down  non-hetero recruits and Tanner, who has posted a photo of his  "four-pack" abs on the site to attract a potential beau, gets caught  in their net. The school's three  divas supreme—spoiled fashionista Fawcett (Sasha Pieterse), drama-club  glamazon Caprice (Xosha Roquemore) and prissy Mormon princess 'Shley  (Andrea Bowen)—swoop in like well-coiffed vultures to vie for  Tanner's attentions, the better to elevate their social profile and  possibly secure the title of prom queen. But  first, they combine efforts to pump up their new pet's "homosexiness"  potential. When he confesses to the girls that he enjoys comics,  Fawcett's face lights up: "LikeKathy Griffin? She's hilarious."  Tanner: "No, like comic books." Fawcett, crestfallen: "That's not gay.  That's just lame." He submits to their makeover since the powerful  threesome provides a welcome shield against any bullying jocks.  Meanwhile, Brent seethes with jealousy on the sidelines and plots mild  revenge. Advertisement There is plenty of  fallout—and some solid zingers—prompted by Tanner's big reveal,  including a campaign by an evangelical female student to shun the  "sodomite" in their midst. "What's a sodomite?" asks the clueless  'Shley. "I think it's like a dust mite," declares 'Topher (Taylor Frey),  her undercover gay boyfriend, who will soon be hitting on Tanner. "But  with sod." The prom, of course,  serves as the finale but with a twist. Since Tanner can't buy tickets if  he attends with another guy, Fawcett decides to host an alternative  dance. Brent, still an undercover gay, retaliates by joining forces with  the traditionalists. It all ends quite sweetly enough. Seems that everyone, even secret science whiz Fawcett,  has side of themselves that they keep tucked away. While  the cast is made up of mostly youthful newcomers of varying degrees of  ability, a couple of elders also crash the party. Jawbreaker alumRebecca GayheartandJonathan Silvermanshow up as Tanner's wacky  parents, who exist simply to make salacious comments about Mom's  homemade gluten-free popsicles.Natasha Lyonnestops by as the adult  adviser of the Gay-Straight Alliance. Her cat's name? Anderson Coo-purr. But  leave it to "Will & Grace" graduateMegan Mullally, who certainly  knows her way around a gay joke, to take the MVP title as Brent's  over-zealously supportive mother. To console her son after Tanner steals  his spotlight, she organizes a parent-child night of bonding over such  queer cinema classics as "Milk", "Boys Don't Cry" and, yes, "Brokeback  Mountain". Mullally's cheerleader-like narration of the infamous pup-tent  encounter ("Heath, don't stand on your pride!") is definitely PDH—pretty darn hilarious.