"I think I wanna be the kind of role model that bringspeople back to the time before the fruit of knowledge was eaten," thenouveau-burlesque artistJulie Atlas Muzsays at the very beginning of "Exposed,"a documentary that manages to be jaw-droppingly provocative and genuinelyendearing—sometimes at alternating points, and by the end kind of all at once. "Exposed"portrays a number of artists, mostly New York based, working in burlesque, orrather a largely nouveau form of it. A form of performance art that takes abunch of the ingredients and accoutrements of conventional burlesque and pushesthem much farther than you'd imagine. And the movie also constitutes somethingof a "wanna bet?" challenge to a viewer who believes he or she canimagine plenty. Advertisement Directed by Beth B, who made a name for herself as apost-punk NYC DIY filmmaker in the early '80s, "Exposed' begins as a kindof conventional talking head doc that eventually reveals the remarkable layersof its subjects while never really breaking out of its standard firm, whicheventually serves as a potential anchoring device for the viewer. Seeing atight close-up ofMat Fraser, who has the rough-hewn handsomeness of a youngMartin Amis type and a slightly plumy British accent to match, creates oneimpression; when footage of his stage show reveals his tiny arms andflipper-like hands, there's a bit of a shock, and it's entirely deliberate Ithink. Initially Beth B. shows us the "normal;" she then reveals thedifference; and then she spends the rest of the movie unifying the two,provided the viewer is willing to go along for the ride. Fraser's situation is the one that has the most immediatevisual impact, but all of the performers here are taking burlesque andultra-X-rated vaudeville as a vehicle to explore their own issues and concernsabout gender and identity. World Famous BOB and Rose Wood, for instance, are biologicallyfemale and male respectively, but the representations they create on stage, andhow these relate to their interactions in the "real" world, both pastand present, are both complex and poignant. One of the subjects of the moviedefines burlesque as an "immediate, honest, and sometimes brutal art form,"and the shock tactics these performers incorporate into a context that hadheretofore been defined as completely frivolous is not just a matter of spicingup "entertainment" but also pursuing self-realization. An upscaledrinking spot like The Glass Slipper becomes a conduit for activism whentransformed by these performers. This all sounds pretty heavy, and no kidding, it is, butthere's a great deal of humor here. The movie is as fascinating as it isconcise—its running time is only about 80 minutes—and it is probably bestexperienced as part of a larger event at which its subjects actually perform,which is how the movie's being marketed in part. Still. It ought to be said,much of what is depicted here is not for the easily shaken. If you associate "burlesque"exclusively with Natalie Wood's striptease scene in "Gypsy," take astep back. Advertisement Throughout "Exposed," you'll see a few peopleseeming to pull items out of places you wouldn't think to pull from. Genitaliais displayed, then tugged, pulled, smushed, smeared with lipstick, and much,much more. Imagine the notorious windshield-sex scene from "The Counselor,"only shot from inside the car. Okay, matters do not get entirely that graphic,but pretty close. You have been warned. If you think you're up for it, then gofor it; "Exposed" will take you to a realm you might not have knowneven existed.