"Ernest and Celestine" is the coziest movie you'lllikely see all year. Every frame is suffused with a fireplace kind of warmththat, for me at least, cast an immediate spell that didn't let up. TheFrench-produced animated movie is skewed to kids, and unlike today's animatedproduct from Hollywood, it isn't self-consciously concerned with making an appealto adults: this simple story of an unlikely friendship between a mouse and abear in a funny-animal world doesn't have any pop-culture jokes or winkingirony. But it's the overall integrity of the movie, directed by StéphaneAubier,Vincent Patar, and Benjamin Rattar, adapting Belgian children's booksby Gabrielle Vincent, that's key to its charm for children of all ages. Advertisement The movie begins in a kind of mouse orphanage, whoseoverseer tries to scare her charges with tales not of big bad wolves but big badbears. Soon after this, mouse-dentist-in-training Celestine endures atooth-hunting mishap that puts her out in the street for a night. She'sdiscovered by grumpy, hungry, far-from-home and out of sorts bear Ernest, whothinks the mouse would make a tasty snack. She talks him out of it, shows himhow to break in to the storeroom of a nearby candy store, and so the adventurebegins, and a friendship, soon to be disapproved by the authorities of bothbear and mouse society, is born. The drawing and animation style is a big part of what makesthe movie so special. The characters look hand-drawn and aren't overlyelaborate; the settings are meticulously designed but sometimes minimallyrendered. The colors are gentle but rich, like really well-coordinated watercolors.The less-is-more sensibility is a little bit deceptive, because the actionsequences—and there are quite a few of them, as society's disapprobation of ourtitle characters leads to a chase or three—are beautifully animated. Not as elaborate as what you get in early Miyazaki, butthey convince. And throughout, the atmosphere is so gentle, even when thedyspeptic bear is acting out his grumpiest sides, that the world of "Ernestand Celestine" looks like an ideal one. Which ties in to the movie'sultimate message, a good one for children and adults alike, a message about howour superficial differences ought not be any impediment to friendship. For therecord, I viewed the French-language version of this movie, which featuresLambert WilsonandPauline Brunnerin the title roles; the English-languageversion gives Ernest to Forrest Whitaker and Celestine toMackenzie Foy(Renesmee in "The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn") and I have everyreason to believe they, as well asLauren Bacall(who has also lent her voicetalents to a Miyazaki movie, as I recall) do a bang-up job. Advertisement