Havingwritten and/or directed the likes of "Training Day," "HarshTimes" and "End of Watch,"David Ayerhas staked his claim asbeing one of Hollywood's go-to guys for wildly implausible and inexplicablycelebrated sagas involving cops who are on (or at least adjacent to) the edge.With his latest work, "Sabotage," he has divorced himself from therecurring elements of his filmography in two key areas by giving viewers astory that focuses on DEA agents who are on the edge and which is sopreposterous that no sane person could possibly celebrate it as anything otherthan inadvertent comedy. This could well be the single most implausible filmplaying at your multiplex this weekend and bear in mind, "Mr. Peabody& Sherman" is still in release. Advertisement One-timeaction kingArnold Schwarzeneggerstars as John "Breacher" Wharton, atwo-fisted, hard-drinking Atlanta-based DEA agent who, as the story opens,leads a ragtag group of colorfully nicknamed agent—including"Monster" (Sam Worthington)' "Grinder" (Joe Manganiello),"Sugar" (Terrence Howard), "Neck" (Josh Holloway),"Tripod" (Max Martini), "Smoke" (Mark Schlegel) and"Lizzy" (Mirelle Enos)—on a raid of a cartel safe house that theyare using as a smokescreen for stealing $10 million dollars in drug money forthemselves. Alas, when they go to retrieve the money later on, they find thatit has disappeared and to make matters worse, their higher-ups somehow knowabout the missing money and yank them all out of the field while trying to findenough conclusive evidence. Aftereight months, the Feds throw in the towel and not only reinstate them all butallow them to reform their group on the basis that no one else will work withthem because of the shame they have brought on the department. At this point, someone begins bumping them off one by one inextraordinarily elaborate and gruesome ways. At first, the assumption is thatone of the cartels they have tangled with in the past is behind the killings,most likely the one from whom they took the still-missing money. However, asthe body count continues to rise, the increasingly paranoid gang begins tosuspect that one of their own is responsible. As tensions mount, Breacher,along with a local cop (Olivia Williams), tries to get to the bottom of themurders while confronting the dark secrets that led to him trying to steal allthe money in the first place. Essentiallya head-on collision between a gritty cop drama and an over-the-top slasher filmthat leaves no survivors, "Sabotage" is a genuinely weird movie inmost respects but unfortunately, it isn't so much interesting-weird as it is"What in God's name were they thinking?"–weird. The storyline is suchabsolute nonsense from top to bottom that it makes the Beastie Boys music videofor their song "Sabotage"—a knowing spoof of Seventies-era TV copdramas—seem like "Heat" in terms of dramatic believability. To befair to Ayer, a good portion of this lunacy may be he handiwork of co-writerSkip Woods, who has helped to pen such crimes against the action genre as"Swordfish," "The A-Team" and "A Good Day to DieHard." Whoever is ultimately responsible for it, the screenplay is littlemore than a foul-mouthed stew of ridiculous twists, unpleasant characters and aconclusion that basically abdicates all narrative responsibilities in order tojam in a chase, a violent concluding shootout and an even more violent codathat feels trucked in from anothermovie.Advertisement Althoughthe film does him no favors, I can understand why Schwarzenegger signed on tothis project—after the failures of "The Last Stand" and "EscapePlan," he no doubt felt the need to shake things up a bit. Unfortunately,the script does him no favors and most viewers will be thinking that he is justa tad too old to be playing this particular character. However, hisalways-unique line readings do inspire the closest that the film gets to actualentertainment, which is more than can be said for his co-stars.Terrence Howard seems to behoping thatDon Cheadlewill turn up to relieve him, Josh Holloway playsessentially the same part that he did in the last "Mission:Impossible" film andMireille Enos, stuck with one of the more embarrassingfemale roles in recent memory, overacts up a storm. As for Sam Worthington, heis so forgettable that he barely registers even when he is front and center.The closest thing to a good performance comes from Joe Manganiello, whodisplays enough wit and charisma to sort of make up for his cardboardcharacter. One lastthing about "Sabotage"—it is really, really violent. Yeah, a certainamount of violence is to be expected from a Schwarzenegger action epic but thered and grey stuff flows so freely here that evenDario Argentomight havesuggested dialing it back a bit. Under most circumstances, I don't have aproblem with extreme violence in a film as long as it can be artisticallyjustified but it is laid on too thick this time around and growsvery tiresome in no time at all. In other words, "Sabotage" is a filmthat is a bloody bore in every sense of the word. Advertisement