Film history is filled with xenophobic tales of prettyAmericans who disappear in foreign lands and the pretty people tasked withfinding them, and this week sees the induction into this ignominious club of whatcould be its worst entry. “In the Blood” is a dull piece of nonsense, a film that makesone feel bad for straight-to-DVD staples likeTreat Williams,Danny Trejo, andLuis Guzman. When you reach the critical point that you consider Trejo,the star of such gems as “Zombie Hunter” and “Dead in Tombstone”, to be above thismaterial, you know you’re in a rare category of awful. Advertisement “In the Blood” is a film for which it’s hard to findsomething even remotely positive to say. Even the scenes that should have somesort of action-based, visceral charge are flat and inconsequential (and far too rare). It looksdownright hideous, as if most of it was shot on a Go Pro. It could be used as awhat-not-to-do example in an editing class; coverage feels off, the pacing isleaden, and the film develops absolutely no visual language of its own. Theacting ranges from serviceable to simply dreadful, the plotting is utternonsense, and, again, there isn’t even engaging action to make up for the sillynarrative. In opening narration that sounds pulled from a YA empowerment "HungerGames" wannabe, Ava (Gina Carano) informs us that she was told by her father to “Nevercry because those tears will be used against me.” She’s tough. Get it? But she’snot too tough to get married to Derek (Cam Gigandet) and jet off on asun-kissed honeymoon. From the very beginning, Carano and Gigandet have zerochemistry. Watching them cavort in the surf and cuddle in the sun has all thebelievability of a Sandals commercial and it’s just one of the first scenesthat feels horrendously, almost fascinatingly off in its pacing. Ava and her new husband get into an altercation (with DannyTrejo, natch) at a nightclub and the action promised by casting the star of "Haywire"and "Fast & Furious 6" in a lead role feels like it will finally befulfilled. And yet even this bit of fighting in a fancy dressdoesn’t work. It’s shot with constant strobe lights meant to replicate the clubsetting, filmed from horrendous angles, and poorly choreographed. Evenwith that, I found myself longing for it half an hour later when the film givesup on action for its missing-man plotline. Advertisement The day after the nightclub altercation, Ava and Derek goziplining (for what feels like forever), where the new husband falls hundreds offeet, injuring himself horribly (but not enough that his cell phone stopsworking). An ambulance is called and Derek is shuttled off to presumed surgeryand internal bleeding, but when Ava gets to the hospital, they have no idea whatshe’s talking about. Derek is missing. Was it the fighter from the club the nightbefore? Someone else? A local police chief (Luis Guzman, who deserves SO muchbetter) starts to suspect that Ava has something to do with Derek’sdisappearance because, well, it’s a movie and he has to. Ava’s dad tells her in flashback that she’s “going to learnto go beyond the limit” and yet “In the Blood” is defined by its limitations.It’s not gritty enough to work as the story of a damsel in distress in aforeign land. It’s not tough enough to deliver as action escapism. It islimited in every way. Not a split second of it feels real or genuine, so oneis tempted to view it as B-movie escapism, but it’s way too boring to work asthat. “In the Blood” never even givesCarano much of a chance to do what she does well. There’s almost no action tospeak of in the “what happened to my husband” middle act. And so thisphysically powerful but emotionally flat performer is forced to carry anarrative about which it is literally impossible to care. Your mind willwander. You’ll start ticking off great Luis Guzman performances. You’ll wonderif certain scenes were shot on an iPhone. You’ll entirely give up on caringwhat happened to Derek and just hope something, anything interesting happens toAva. And you’ll wish you were watching a better Danny Trejo movie.