In the opening scenes of Jeff Maloof andCharlie Siskel’s “FindingVivian Maier,” its titular subject is described as “paradoxical”, “bold”, “eccentric”,and other words that get at the fact that the men and women who were closest toMaier in her time on Earth didn’t really know much about her. In 2007, Maloofwas working on a book about his Chicago neighborhood and longed for the rightarchival photography. A flea market junkie from a young age, he took a risk at an auction,bidding on a box of negatives that he never ended up using and shoved in acloset. Two years later, he developed them out of curiosity and discovered awoman now considered one of the best photographers of the 20thcentury. When the best of Maier’s work first appears in the film about her, thequality takes your breath away and sends chills down your spine. She was a truetalent. And yet Maloof and Siskel’s film presents an interesting moral quandary along with its profile of an amazing photographer. When does creative ability and the desire to share a trueartist’s eye trump what has to be considered an invasion of privacy? Advertisement The story of “Finding Vivian Maier” progresses from Maloof’sauction find to his scanning the developed photos into a Flickr account andrealizing that he wasn’t alone in his assessment of Maier’s talent. And so hewent after the rest of the story, trying not only to find the rest of thenegatives but Maier’s back story, and how it impacted her photography.Immediately, significant questions haunted Maloof. Why did she never show herwork to anyone? Why did she shoot over 150,000 photos, most of them from a boxcamera that she always carried around her neck and could surreptitiously use tocapture her subjects? And what’s the point of taking so many photos if no one sees them? When Maloof discovers that Maier recently passed and isallowed access to her storage unit, a portrait of a hoarder becomes moreclearly defined. She didn’t just take 150,000 photos. She kept receipts fordecades, collected trinkets, stacked newspapers to the point that her floor sagged.She rather quickly goes from “eccentric” to mentally ill, especially whenstories of her relative disregard for many of the children she nannied comeinto focus. (One family speaks about the photos she took when one of her wardswas hit by a car and the behavior turns to honest mental and physical abuselater in life). She often gave fake names and some claim she used a fakeaccent. She wanted to be hidden, private, and reclusive. Just because she oncelooked into selling photos doesn’t change the mountain of behavior thatsuggests that she saw her negatives and photos as something else to fill thestorage unit of memories. And now all of that is being torn down. The argument hasbeen made that Maier’s photos are fair game because she didn’t destroy thenegatives. She didn’t destroy ANYTHING. She kept receipts buried in trinkets inenvelopes in boxes. And the film raises the question of privacy regularly withpeople who knew Maier commenting on how much she would have loathed thisinvestigation into her life and Maloof wondering aloud if he’s gone too far.Sadly, the filmmakers brush it off by answering the question with theirfascination with this odd, talented outsider artist. Curiosity is used anexcuse to invade privacy. Not good enough. If they had taken a strong stance and simply statedthat art is meant to be shared and displayed no matter the artist’s wishes, Imight have actually agreed. But the invasive nature of “Finding Vivian Maier”is only briefly given lip service and never adequately handled (within the film…thecreators supposedly have dealt with the issue elsewhere but this is a review of what’s in the filmitself and not supplemental material). Advertisement Is it possible to love the art but disagree with the way it’spresented? Vivian Maier’s photography is absolutely incredible and now that it’sbeen unearthed and her past has been investigated, her talent should beappreciated. And so I’m incredibly torn about “Finding Vivian Maier” overall. ShouldMaloof and Siskel have opened a door that a dead woman so clearly wantedlocked? I’d say no (or they should have done so with more authority andartistic justification instead of just glossing over the issue with "But isn't she interesting?"). And yet now thatit’s open, it can’t be closed again. Perhaps when Maloof posted those photos onFlickr, there was no turning back. And oh is it ever fascinating what is behind that door.