Hank (Andrew Pastides) is handsome, outgoing, and romantic.Asha (Mahira Kakkar) is beautiful, sweet, and vulnerable. Who wouldn't want to watch them get together?James E. Duff’s filmabout these two immensely likable people starts with a found-footage conceitthat holds the potential to deconstruct what we know all too well about theromantic dramedy genre, giving viewers a unique take on a timeless tale. Andyet as easy as it is to like Hank and Asha, it’s impossible to look past themany screenwriting and filmmaking flaws of the film about them. Advertisement “Hank and Asha” consists of nothing but “video letters” fromHank to Asha and Asha to Hank. Asha lives in Prague, where she sees a film byHank that she admires. She waits for the post-screening Q&A to meet the man behind thework but he unexpectedly is forced to miss the meet & greet. And so Ashadoes something that might be slightly outside of her comfort zone: she sendssomeone she doesn’t know a video introduction. Hank responds from his apartmentin New York City. The two rather quickly (almost too much so to be realistic)open up about their lives. Asha criticizes the lack of interior design in Hank’s day-to-day, while Hank is often playful and silly, playing guitar or lip-syncing a danceroutine. The two form at least a supportive friendship, and possibly much more if theyweren’t separated by thousands of miles. Hank and Asha’s relationship, whichnever progresses to the Skype stage, goes through many of the ups and downs ofa physical one but would have been impossible just a technological generationago. The creative potential in the way that the physicaldevelopment of technology has forever altered love,passion, and romance thatSpike Jonzebrilliantly mined in "Her" seems like thefoundation for a film built on video letters. Which is why the formulaic natureof Duff andJulia Morrison’s script can be so frustrating. The structure of “Hankand Asha” puts us right in the middle of what should be an intimate, personal,organic connection. Hank and Asha are speaking to each other but due to thenature of cinema, they are really speaking directly to the movie audience,conveying fears, concerns, and something at least approaching love. And yetDuff & Morrison waste the opportunity for true emotional connection on contrivance. The first cinematic element that pushes “Hank and Asha” closerto cliché than reality is a matter of technical polish. Nothing here looks nearlyDIY enough. Why is Asha opening a doorto the already-on camera? Everything past the first few exchanges has the lookof a VH1 music video. It’s too well-framed, well-lit; yes, Hank is a filmmakerand Asha has an artist’s eye, so I can give you that their videos may lookbetter than average but why does she have a better editor than most Slamdancefilms? And when Duff and Morrison get to the “pop stage”, where they twice giveeach character a “Coffee House” track to adorn their montages, we’ve reachedthe point where it feels more like watching a Plain White T’s music video thananything else. Advertisement The script starts to reflect (or perhaps influence) the film’soverly polished manner. Why do they so often respond via video message as ifthey’re talking to each other in conversation when we know they’re not? Shereveals something and Hank “responds” with “Whoa. Wow. That’s huge.” as if hehasn’t had hours to think about it before preparing his response. Why notembrace the idea that modern technology would alter the romantic conversationinstead of pretending that we’re in the middle of a dinner date? Use the form to put the viewer in a position that doesn't so often feel like a standard third wheel. “Hank and Asha”tries to replicate the dating process through modern technology but fails tocomment on how said technology really changes their behavior (or even just to make thecase that it doesn’t). Found footage has been a subgenre often reserved for horrorfilms and yet the worst of them often fall into the same genre traps as theiron-film counterparts. The same fate befalls “Hank and Asha,” a film with twogenuinely likable characters and performers that can’t avoid the clichés of thegenre it could have so easily deconstructed.