The first round of the 2013 NFL Draft on ESPN was watched bymore than 6 million people. It’s an amazing number when one considersthe history of a process in which winners and losers won't be defined for years to come. These are viewers, most of them diehard fans, engagedin a prospect, a dream, a chance for a better future for their team. Will theirfirst-round pick be Andrew Luck or Ryan Leaf? Every decision is analyzed to thepoint of exhaustion as the popularity of the NFL is rarely more pronounced thanin the fact that people are more interested in players whomighthit the fieldin four months than those actually playing hockey, basketball, and baseball thatvery day. And it creates a pressure cooker atmosphere for those actually taskedwith trying to separate the Leafs from the Lucks. Rabid fans make for tenseexecutives. When Donovan McNabb was drafted over Texas phenom Ricky Williams inthe 1999 draft, Philadelphia almost collectively lost its mind. Make a mistakeat the draft and you might not be around as long as the player you just picked. Advertisement The “War Room” environment of decision-making on the day ofthe NFL draft was too enticing for Hollywood to avoid for long, and so thestar-studded and cameo-heavy “Draft Day” arrives to offer viewers a behind-the-sceneslook at how an NFL team can be broken or salvaged with just a series ofnegotiations and player assessments. Both too “inside baseball” for non-NFLfans to care and not nearly character-driven enough at the same time, IvanReitman’s film is cluttered, noisy, and often nonsensical. Reitman lacksconfidence in the script byRajiv Joseph&Scott Rothman(and probablyshould) and so he uses more split-screen than an episode of “24” in an attemptto make a flat story pop. Sonny Weaver, Jr. (Kevin Costner) is having the kind ofstressful month that only happens in the movies. He’s the general manager ofthe long-suffering Cleveland Browns, and has to choose between a hothead linebackernamed Vontae Mack (Chadwick Boseman) and a troubled running back named RayJennings (Houston Texans star Arian Foster) with the team’s #7 pick. Sonny’snamesake was the beloved coach of the Browns for years and just passed away inthe last week. Because grief over his father’s passing, job tension, and thedraft pick weren’t enough for the screenwriters, the film opens with therevelation that Sonny’s girlfriend Ali (Jennifer Garner) happens to bepregnant. Of course, Ali works with Sonny and their romance has been(relatively) secret. Not enough movie for you? Sonny’s day becomes significantly moreintense when the Seattle Seahawks call and offer to trade down their #1 pick tothe Browns. Weaver knows he needs to make a splash (and is literally told asmuch in a horrendously-scripted scene with his boss,Frank Langella’s AnthonyMolina) and so he chooses to trade his future for his present, giving the nextthree first-round picks to Seattle for the chance to draft Wisconsin superstarBo Callahan (Josh Pence). His coach (Denis Leary) loses his mind and Sonnyspends the rest of the day trying to figure out how to turn his draft around…andhis life, of course. Advertisement “Draft Day” is well-cast. Costner has the world-weariness of a man losing sleep over college kids and job security. Langella and Learyknow how to push the right buttons when it comes to turning up the heat on ourprotagonist. Supporting roles feel well-considered, including scene-stealerslike W. Earl Brown,Terry Crews,Sam Elliott, andEllen Burstyn. And yet all of these interesting performers can't save a dull script. To work, “Draft Day” needs the kind of witty dialogue andsnappy energy thatSteve ZaillianandAaron Sorkinbrought to “Moneyball” but the screenwriters mistake constant activity for actual screenwriting.Everyone serves a plot purpose in this cluttered tale instead of playing anactual person: "the girlfriend," "the coach," "the mom," "the agent," "the owner," and so on.They are archetypes and often fail to feel realistic even in that regard. Langella’s Art Modellriff (it’s no coincidence he has the same initials as the legendary Brownsowner who moved the team to Baltimore in the ‘90s) is a caricature, Burstynpops up just to manipulatively tug at heartstrings, and the romance betweenCostner & Garner contains zero chemistry. As if he could tell that he had a shallow script, Reitman doeshis best to make it all seem more interesting than it is with visual tricks.Characters cross split screens, creating a truly odd aesthetic in which it lookslike people in separate cities are sharing the same space while talking on thephone. The on-screen ticking clock counting down to thedraft, the pomp and circumstance of NFL logos every time a new team comes intothe narrative; these are the kind of filmmaking tricks that might have enhanceda quality script but feel like a lot of window-dressing with this one. Inessence, it’s not dissimilar to what ESPN does with the actual draft, pumpingit up with fanfare, high-tech graphics, and on-screen stats to give the viewerthe impression they’re watching something truly important.What “Draft Day”misses is that the reason 6 million people watch the actual draft is because it’smerely the prelude to the story of their team and possibly their new favoriteplayer, and not the whole story in itself. We buy into the dream because of what it could mean for our sportsfandom. The movie about this phenomenon clutters that hope with too many charactersinvolved in uninteresting (and often unbelievable) subplots, dragging the highthat true sports fans feel on draft day to the ground. Advertisement