Grief almost always produces abrupt mood changes. We’ve all seen theHollywood cliché of the laughter that turns to tears but there’s something inthat trope—the idea that our own emotions have the potential to flip like acoin when we’re dealing with loss. J.P. Chan’s light-but-sweet “A Picture ofYou” endeavors to recreate that unpredictability in the days following thedeath of a loved one by taking a sharp right turn from melodrama to comedy at the end of the first act. Whatstarts as a traditional character piece about siblings dealing with demonsafter the death of their mother eventually becomes a screwball comedy as Chanfinds a unique way to cycle through cinematic grief. At one point, Jen (Jo Mei)says about the photograph that pulls the switch, “I didn’t describe thegenre.” It’s a nod to a film that doesn’t really have one either. Advertisement Sullen Jen and stubborn Kyle (Andrew Pang) are forced to gothrough that awful series of days that most of us will eventually reach on ourcalendars—packing up the home of a deceased parent. Animosity bubbles not farunder the surface as Kyle chose to come home and take care of their mother(played byJodi Longin a series of brief flashbacks) while Jen couldn’t bringherself to do so. It’s a classic cinematic resentment: the sibling who felt hedid more for their mother before she passed and the one who regrets not doingenough. Naturally, days of packing up books and other personal belongings onlyserve as a backdrop for Jen & Kyle to deal with the issues they have witheach other. And then Kyle goes to copy mom’s files from her computer toa flash drive and clicks on a picture that changes everything. A series ofbrief, blurry photos show another side of mom, and the naked side of one of herlovers. Naturally, there’s a bit of mental block when it comes to Kyle &Jen imagining that their mother had sex but it’s not handled in an overtlysitcomish manner. Kyle seems truly shellshocked and Jen honestly confused, butit’s more regarding the idea that someone they loved had secrets that includedpornographic pictures than the whole “eww, my parents have sex!” plot device pulledout by lesser comedies. Chan allows the revelation to not only turn the film tocomedy from melodrama but push his two characters to acceptance that people aremore complicated than we think, even our parents. The tonal shift really happens when Jen’s boyfriend Doug(Lucas Dixon) and pal Mika (Teyonah Parris) show up to help in the packingcause, mere moments after the siblings see pics of mom’s sex life. The siblingstry to keep the secret of why they’re rattled but their behavior starts toshift. Kyle wants to smoke weed for the first time. If mom could have casualsex, why not? Jen itches to tell Doug what’s going on, and, most of all, tofind out the owner of the male member mom chose to keep on her hard drive. Advertisement Obviously, the situations of “A Picture of You” feel a bitforced but they’re handled in such a likable way that it’s forgivable,especially in the superior second half of the film. The final act, whichapproaches screwball comedy, is actually the strongest, as the characters havecompletely descended from the mountain of melodrama in the first act and thewispy memories of a mother they never knew have been replaced by covertinvestigations in the dark. I was worried the whole time that the cycle wouldeventually get back to melodrama and, of course, it does, but we like thesefour characters enough by that point that it’s easily forgivable. There’sabsolutely no new ground broken here thematically and the clunky productionvalues—Chan shoots too much in close-up other than scenes of bike-riding on therural streets around mom’s house—sometimes feel like the product of a filmschool project. And yet Chan and his cast, especially the truly great Mei, find thetruth in the ridiculous enough for it to work on its own modest terms.