Thearrival of Lav Diaz's "Norte, The End of History" marks the end of a journey that began at the 2013 Cannes FilmFestival, where it was the hit of the Un Certain Regard sidebar, and continuedon through the international circuit, where it was routinely described as amasterpiece of staggering proportions by those who saw it. In most cases, thatmuch hype can lead to ridiculously inflated expectations but with a film likethis, I would think that most people would want to go into it expecting somekind of masterwork. After all, if someone is going to go to the trouble ofmaking a 250-minute-long film that begins as a Filipino riff on theDostoyevsky's classic "Crime and Punishment," and then grows darkerand darker until a final stretch that is among the most despairing ever put ona movie screen, you don't want them to expend all that effort on a near-miss.As it turns out, "Norte" is not quite the epochal work of cinemagreatness that some have suggested but it is hardly a miss either. There aremoments of staggering beauty and power on display here and yet there are alsomoments when it seems to be ambling around with no clear idea of where it wantsto go. Advertisement Setin the northwest region of the Philippines,the film spends its first hour introducing us to its dual protagonists, two men who seem to have nothing in commonother than the happenstance of living in the same area. Fabian (Sid Lucerio) isa smug, self-absorbed twerp of privilege in his early thirties who was apromising law student until dropping out for vaguely defined reasons and whonow delivers endless lectures on his sub-Nietzchian theories of the world incoffee house bull sessions with former classmates before hitting them up forrent money. Joaquin (     Archie Alemania    ),on the other hand, is a poor but noble type with a loving wife, Eliza (AngeliBayani), and two kids whose simple dreamof opening a cafe is threatened when a serious leg injury decimates hissavings. The other thing that the two menhave in common is that they are both in serious arrears to local money lenderMagda (     Mae Paner    ).One night, deciding to put his sub-Nietzschiantheories into practice (and erasing his debt at the same time), Fabian goes toMagda's house and brutally murders both her and her young daughter, whoinadvertently witnessed the crime. While he flees town, Joaquin is arrested forthe murders and, after being let down by a legal system too expensive andconfusing for him to navigate, he is sentenced to life in prison. Over the nextfour years, the film cooly observes as he tries to make the best of hishorrible situation while Eliza struggles to provide for her children by manninga meager vegetable cart. As for Fabian, even though he has literally gottenaway with murder, he is consumed with a sense of guilt that appears to drivehim to the point of madness and not even his attempts to make amends are ableto stop his descent into the darkness. Althoughthe above plot recap may seem succinct enough, Liau and co-writerRody Verastretch things out to over four solid hours with most of the plot—at least thestuff with the strictest parallels to "Crime andPunishment"—concentrated in the first 90 minutes. This may sound like anabsolutely untenable running time but it has to be taken into considerationthat Diaz is a filmmaker who uses extended running times (some of his previousfilms have clocked in at over 6 hours) as a deliberate part of a narrativeapproach that favors long takes and almost imperceptibly slow tracking shotsover whiplash editing as a way of illustrating the slow and sometimesmonotonous rhythms of daily existence. This is an intriguing approach and thereare long stretches of "Norte" that are absolutely spellbinding towatch, aided in no small part from the excellent performances from the cast andthe often stunning cinematography from Lauro Rene Mands. Advertisement The trouble is that there are also extendedsequences in which so little happens that the effect is more tedious thanhypnotic—there are points where the film makes Bela Tarr's "The TurinHorse" feel like "Run Lola Run" by comparison. This is mostlydue to a screenplay that grows less and less psychologically sound the furtherit drifts from its inspiration—there is a long sequence when Elizacontemplates killing herself and her children that feels like a cheap shot andsome of the cruelties on display in the final hour feel like attempts to joltviewers that may have inevitably drifted off during the slower parts. Forthese moments to fully work, a filmmaker has to have earned them, and there are times in which Diaz hasn't completely done that. Despite that, the end results, although uneven, are undeniably fascinating even as they challenge the viewer's stamina.