The lastscene of “Jersey Boys” is a curtain call of sorts. Set to The Four Seasons’memorable ode to deflowering, “December, 1963,” the scene explodes with bright,noisy colors and jubilant voices. It hops from character to character, visuallyname-checking the entire cast as they sing and dance. The camerawork, editingand lighting foster a genuine sense of excitement. In this finale, “Jersey Boys”feels like the Broadway musical upon which it is based, showcasing the energyand joy that continues to leap off the stage every night in venues from Las Vegasto London. Advertisement If only directorClint Eastwoodhad directed more scenes like this. He ensured hiscast would be up to the task by importing several veterans from the stage.Three of the Four Seasons cast in “Jersey Boys” are from various incarnationsof the show, including Tony-winnerJohn Lloyd Young, whose Frankie Valli isvocally spot-on and a force to behold.Christopher Walken, no slouch tomusicals, is also on hand, doing a bit of a soft-shoe in the aforementionedfinale. Even “Boardwalk Empire” vetVincent Piazza, as group member TommyDeVito, holds his own with the more musically seasoned members of The Four Seasons. The singing talentis there, but Eastwood and writersMarshall Brickman(“Annie Hall”) and RickElise opt for a more realistic depiction of events. They transform “Jersey Boys”from jukebox musical to movie biopic, exchanging one much-maligned genre foranother. In the process, the focus is shifted; the drama is played up and themusic seems shoehorned in where convenient. Thisimbalance is forgivable in scenes where the band deals with talent scout JoePesci (yes, thatJoe Pesci, here in the guise of actor Joey Russo) or interactwith one another. The problems arise in the mob-related material, which isseemingly endless. These plot elements are necessary to tell the full story,but the lazy way they are depicted stops the movie cold. We've already seen “GoodFellas,”“Mean Streets” and any number of mob-related tales, so Eastwood’s take on themfeels lifeless. As the catalyst for most of these scenes, Piazza wrings hisderivative character for all that he’s worth. But Walken, as mob boss GypDeCarlo, is given little to do besides commit scene-stealing grand larceny in aweepy moment opposite Young’s Valli. “Jersey Boys” keeps the show’s conceit ofhaving each of the Four Seasons tell various aspects of the story. Tommy, Frankie,Nick Massi (Michael Lomenda) and Bob Gaudio (Erich Bergen) break the fourthwall at various points to talk to us directly. Since Tommy is both the band’sheart and its downfall, he figures into everyone’s narrative. Songwriter Gaudiobecomes the band’s primary songwriter because Tommy acted on a tip from JoePesci. Frankie sharpens and perfects his famous falsetto with Tommy’s help. AndNick rooms with Tommy for 10 years and sees the worst sides of him. Advertisement Whether they’resinging or fighting, “Jersey Boys” is at its best when it focuses on the bandmembers’ chemistry. The actors know their characters’ voices well enough toeffortlessly plow through as many Four Seasons songs as the original musicalcontains. They sound spectacular, and there’s enough of each song to satiatefans and newbies alike. But Eastwood shoots so many of these numbers in amatter-of-fact, almost documentary style, static way that the two times hereally cuts loose are the film’s best moments. The second time is the curtaincall finale; the first is Young’s hauntingly emotional rendering of “Can’t TakeMy Eyes Off You.” If you know the song, you’ll know what the big mid-number revealis. Eastwood presents it with stunning gusto, and the reaction Valli gets atthe end is as close to a stand-up-and-cheer moment as “Jersey Boys” gets. Though nolonger playing to the back of the house, Young, Bergen and Lomenda still have atendency to go big in front of the camera. It’s most noticeable opposite Piazza’sTommy, who despite his stereotype-ridden role gives the best performance in “JerseyBoys.” Yet the vocal talent trumps any minor performance issues incurred. Thefilmmakers made the right decisions for the leads. This movie will sell manysoundtracks. The elephantin the room is Eastwood himself. He is the wrong director for this material,and this opinion comes from someone who loved “Million Dollar Baby,” “SpaceCowboys” and even those orangutan movies. He is the wrong choice, but not forthe reason you think. Eastwood is adept at handling music in films, from “Bird”to his country music homage to Garbo’s “Camille,” “Honkytonk Man” (which I alsolike without shame). But, for once, I have to agree with those who say his style is too laidback. A movie as grungy, profane and blue-collar as “Jersey Boys” needs to feel more alive. When the music’s notplaying, “Jersey Boys” starts to lull you into mild lethargy. I wonder whatfellow Jersey BoyBrian De Palmacould have done with this.