It’s doubtful anyone expected that “Think Like a Man” wouldbe the hit that it was in 2012. Based onSteve Harvey’s kinda-sorta self-helpbook titled “Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man,” the movie featured agreat-looking and magnetic ensemble of actors and actresses in wacky,hackneyed, battle-of-the-sexes scenarios. It grossed almost $100 millionworldwide. It also made a superstar out of diminutive, quick-talking comedianKevin Hart. Two years later, we have “Think Like a Man Too,” a sequelthat screams “cashing in again.” From the half-heartedly clever spelling of“Too” in the title to the overly familiar Las Vegas setting to the completebreaks in narrative for music-video style interludes, everything about thisfilm smacks of laziness. Advertisement The one person working hard, because it is his shtick, isHart. A little bit of his act goes a long way; here, his frantic presence isstretched thin to the point of snapping. In the first film—which, like thisone, was directed byTim Story—Hart was an enjoyable scene-stealer in small,sporadic doses. He then went on to re-team with Story in this winter’sformulaic, mismatched-buddy-cop comedy “Ride Along” oppositeIce Cube. Now, inthis sequel, he’s not just part of the group, he’s the narrator and drivingforce. Hart takes over duties from Harvey, smothering the film withamped-up voiceover that over-explains the film’s wacky romantic shenanigans,which weren’t all that complicated in the first place. Usually he does thiswith tortured, extended basketball metaphors about the teams being tied (becauseit’s the eternal struggle of men vs. women, hardy har har) or the beauty of anoff-balance, fade-away jumper. As contrived as it all sounds, there is an actual reason forall the characters from the first film to reassemble for part two courtesy of returning writersKeith MerrymanandDavid A. Newman: Mama’s boy Michael (TerrenceJ) and single mom Candace (Regina Hall) are getting married. (Although Mamaherself, played once again by a witheringJenifer Lewis, keeps trying to getbetween them in stereotypical fashion.) All the sources of tension that defined the other characters—neediness, fear of commitment, balancing career and romance—havedissipated. The men and women are all coupled up and happy. So what’s left todo with them now? Not much, it seems, except allow them to wallow in clichédVegas antics. Media exec Lauren (Taraji P. Henson) has planned a wildbachelorette party for Candace and their pals: dress designer Mya (MeaganGood), new wife Kristen (Gabrielle Union) and the random Sonia (LaLa Anthony),who’s thrown into the mix as an afterthought. Advertisement Meanwhile, Hart’s overzealous Cedric has secured a luxurysuite at Caesars Palace and planned a crazy night for the groom and theirbuddies: laid-back chef Dominic (Michael Ealy), ladies’ man Zeke (Romany Malco)and stoner Jeremy (Jerry Ferrara). Also along for the ride areGary OwenandWendi McLendon-Coveyas Bennett and Tish, the token, dorky white couple,complete with fanny pack (for him) and sweater sets (for her). Naturally, theywill learn to let loose and get their freak on in various capacities. But all these folks are pretty bland, really; then again,even gorgeous, charismatic actors like these can get steamrolled when Hart isaround. And there are so many returning players combined with several newsupporting characters that everyone gets lost in the shuffle (if you’ll pardonthe inadvertent gambling pun). There’s no real plot here; no sense of narrativeprogression. Story moves them from the pool to the blackjack table to the dancefloor to the strip club and, eventually, jail. Details and plot points that seem to matter in the moment fall by the wayside: the flashy, orange Lamborghini Cedric isdriving when he pulls up to the hotel’s valet parking, for example, or the bashhe plans in the $44,000-a-night suite he can't afford. He secures a stripper pole for the room,hands out flyers and everything. Does it even go down? Do random strangers showup at the door and wonder what happened? None of it seems to matter. The best sequence in the whole film has very little to dowith the nuptials at hand. It’s a full-length music video for Bell Biv Devoe’skitschy, catchy, 1990 hit “Poison,” complete with all the stylistic details ofthe R&B/hip-hop clips from that era. Clad in sexy, sparkly nightclubdresses, the ladies writhe seductively on couches or mug ferociously beforefish-eye lenses. They seem to be seizing the reins and enjoying themselvesgenuinely for the first time. They do the ENTIRE song. It’s a jubilant departure—but it’s also a glaringreminder of how little else the film has to offer. And it’s enough to make youwish Michael and Candace had just eloped. Advertisement