I am a privileged person in many ways, but one of the waysin that I’m most privileged, I sometimes think, is that I got to lay eyes onNat Hentoff’s office at the Village Voice back when the legendary paper had itsoffices off Union Square in Manhattan. This was in the early ‘80s, at a pointwhen Hentoff had produced enough work and wielded enough influence (overthinkers, not politicians or real estate moguls) to have made several careersand spanned several lifetimes. In other words, the one time jazz critic, musicimpresario, and ever-tireless gadfly in defense of the First Amendment was aslegendary at the paper where he wrote a column and kept an office. That office:I’d never seen anything like it before, and I’ve never seen anything like itsince. From floor to ceiling it held what can only be called pillars, stacked,if you can call it that, side by side by side by side, of newspapers and books.You couldn’t see the light fixture at the top of the room. The only open spacein the office was its small doorway, a few steps past which was a small deskwith a typewriter and a lamp on it, and a chair in front of it. Advertisement It was unbelievable, not just because it was a fire hazard,not just because it was the sort of scene that inspired a weird “how do youfind anything?” awe. It was also a testament to Hentoff’s attitude to theprinted word. He hoarded it. Crazy love, you can call it. Sometimes, duringDavid Lewis’ engaging documentary aboutHentoff, “The Pleasures of Being Out Of Step,” when you look behind the nownearly 90-year-old Hentoff as he speaksfrom his home office—he was laid off from the Voice in 2006, putting arguablythe final nail in the coffin of what that publication had once been, and stoodfor—you can see a version of that mess in miniature, a stray stack or two. ButI wish the doc had a picture of that office, man. It would qualify for some kindof special effects Oscar, I promise. Lewis subtitles his movie “Notes on the Life of NatHentoff,” and that’s wise; at less than 90 minutes in length, there’s only somuch ground it can cover. The documentary takes a thematic rather than linearchronological approach. Lewis weaves together material on Hentoff’s love ofjazz and his shoe-leather training as a wordsmith, and tries to make a casethat the freedom that’s inherent in jazz as a musical form has something to sayabout the Constitution-guaranteed freedoms Hentoff has spent a good portion ofhis life articulating and defending. This First Amendment absolutist, anatheist and a Jew, achieved what some might consider a perverse notoriety whenhe defended the right of the American Nazi Party to stage a parade in Skokie,Illinois. Years later, Hentoff, whom many of his readers had taken for grantedwas a supporter of all liberal or liberal-related issues, made a lot of enemiesby coming out with a stern position against abortion. One might not think thatbouncing back and forth between Jazz Hentoff and First Amendment Hentoff wouldmake for consistently engaging viewing, but the movie is in fact remarkablyfluid and never less than compelling. Like many biographicaldocumentaries, it features an array of talking heads, but I can’t think of anysuch pictures featuring such an eclectic array of such figures: poet andrhetorical firebrand Amiri Baraka, constitutional lawyerFloyd Abrams, jazzgiantPhil Woods, pioneering feminist journalist Karen Durbin, and many more,including Hentoff’s second wife Margot, who seems in many ways as formidable afigure as her spouse. (Full disclosure: while I’ve never had the pleasure ofmeeting Hentoff, Karen Durbin is a friend, as is another interviewee here, formerrecord executive Regina Joskow.) The movie is also enlivened by a lot offantastic archival footage, and again here the range is remarkable. Not manyfilms boost cameos from both William F. Buckley and Thelonious Monk. Advertisement Despitehis rep as “Always itching for a fight,” Hentoff here comes off as pretty mildmannered, and indeed his equanimity in speaking is cited by more than oneinterviewee as almost maddening. He articulates his point of view with greatcalm, reflecting on his “betrayals” of liberalism as nothing more than facetsin a lifetime of argument. An argument in which he believes he holds thecorrect opinion, of course, but an argument nonetheless. Past accusations ofhomophobia and anti-feminism roll off of him like water off a duck’s back, but,as a viewer, I was disappointed that he didn’t address them more directly, andalso that Hentoff doesn’t reflect at all on the sundered friendships so manyarguments have left in their wake. “Don’t get yourself caught up incategories,” Hentoff recalls being told byDuke Ellington. Hentoff followedthis advice while sticking like a barnacle to some very key principles. Even ifyou disagree with him, the man who emerges in this portrait is both aninvaluable advocate of the arts and a moral hero. And he also wrote the linernotes to “Sketches of Spain.”