The fourth film in the “Transformers” series, an at leastpartial “reboot” as they call it, because although it’s part of a continuity itdispenses with all the characters from the previous films (and hasn’t it beenlovely seeing the good use to which Shia LaBoeuf has been putting his resultantfree time) is a spectacular visual and aural experience. It is abundant in themost sophisticated visual effects that the movie industry has to offer,rendering in precisely-engineered 3D all manner of ingeniously designedorganic, mechanic, mutated imaginary creatures enacting breakneck action and wreakinglarge-scale mayhem with relentless impact. And it’s not just the effects thatimpress: the simulated physical action choreographed and enacted by what musthave been legions of stunt people, ranging from Western-style punch-em-outs tomartial arts kicks and chops to parkour-style rooftop leaping is clearlyexecuted with conviction and precision, although it is often shot and edited inthe style (called “chaos cinema” by some) that renders a lot of what transpiresin a kinetic blur. In terms of the technical stuff, the only really crap thingin “Transformers: Age Of Extinction” is the music. Not even the score, really,but rather this one whiny song that comes up every now and then at climacticmoments. (Of which there are several.) It might even be one or twodifferentsongs, but whatever they are,they sound like indifferent Journey knockoffs and aren’t up to what the rest ofthe movie delivers. Advertisement Of course, like ALMOST every other movie reviewer, I'm not convinced that a two-hour-and-forty minute toy commercial elaborately disguising itself as a movie is something to celebrate. Hence, I'm obliged to point out that all this moviemaking expertise is put in the service of a sci-fi concept that is, for lack of a better word, infantile. The movie takes place a couple of years after the end of 2011’s “Transformers:Dark of the Moon,” but there have been some changes made; despite thealien-robot-truck-thingies having saved the world, the U.S. government is nowagainst all bots because they wrecked Chicago in the process, so now we’ve gotKelsey Grammeras a secretive C.I.A. powerhouse doing a purge on allTransformers—OR IS HE? (There’s a high-tech company run by unctuous StanleyTucci that may be in on the scheme in a way that will not be unguessable bythose with a slight familiarity with Hollywood paranoia tropes.) Then there’sMark Wahlberg’s hapless Texas inventor/handyman, a widower with a veryattractive teenage daughter (I guess the fact that directorMichael Bayshiftedhis obligatory jailbait model role—here it goes to oneNicola Peltz, who mightsomeday get to play the lead in “TheTara ReidStory” if she plays her cardsright—from girlfriend to hero-daughter is a sign of maturity?) whoinadvertently ends up with Transformer leader Optimus Prime in his garage. Theremainder of the narrative is both mind-numbingly convoluted and almostshockingly slack—there’s a moment near the movie’s fifth or sixth action climaxset piece that finds Grammer wandering around a Hong Kong pier area and if youread his lips carefully you’ll see he’s saying “What the hell am I doing STILLin this movie?” ScreenwriterEhren Kruger’s latest additions to theTransformer, ahem, mythology include yet another metallic-looking alien racetrolling around Earth’s lower atmosphere in a modular spaceship whose interiorslook like something the Quay Brothers would come up with if they were big intometh. There’s also a what-killed-the-dinosaurs prologue that kind of playslike “ ‘Prometheus’ For Dummies” (yes, I know many of you think "Prometheus" itself was already for dummies, but trust me) and pays off in the third orfourth action climax set piece with some fascinating new creatures whosecavalry-to-the-rescue charge down an Asian hill seems nonetheless anticlimacticanyway. The poker-faced way that various and sundry of the cast reflect on theidea that Transformers have “souls” and that this is why humans should beallied with them, is rather confounding; do the filmmakers actually believe inthis idea enough to want its audience to believe it, or are they just beingunbelievably cynical, and which would be worse if true? Not that the moviegives you much time to think about it. But since it doesn’t give you much timeto think about it, why bring up the issue at all? Like I said. Confounding. Butnot without its thrills. As I’ve said. Rather than proselytize for or against this motion pictureexperience—my star rating is as close as I can come to an objective assessment,and I reckon pretty much everybody reading this—especially this far!—made uphis or her mind about whether they’re going to see this some time ago, I shallclose with two quotes. The first is from the New Testament’s Book ofCorinthians: “When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child,I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things.” Thesecond is from the song “Kalamazoo,” by the group Luna, its lyrics by DeanWareham: “If the war is over/and the monsters have won/if the war is over/I’mgonna have some fun.” Advertisement