Unjust lawsexist;shall we becontent to obey them,or shall weendeavor to amend themand obeythem until we have succeeded,or shall wetransgress them at once?—HenryDavid Thoreau By openinghis film with those words,Brian Knappenbergermakes crystal clear his belief in the cause ofhis subject in “The Internet’s Own Boy: The Story of Aaron Swartz.” Swartz was the young man who refused to obey "unjust laws" and he was essentiallykilled after he chose to transgress them. A government turned trigger-happy bythe Wikileaks scandal and a general sense that they could no longer control thedissemination of information in the internet age threatened the technologicallypioneering Swartz through over-prosecution, bringing charges that could havelanded him in jail for 35 years. Completely shattered at not just the prospectof being labeled a felon for the rest of his life but the betrayal ofinstitutions that should have defended him (like MIT), Swartz committed suicideat the age of 26. Advertisement The impact of not just his pioneering efforts to make theinternet the community and knowledge base it could become but how we could usethat for important change has not stopped. One can hear Swartz’s arguments andinfluence in the fight for net neutrality and calls for access to knowledge tobecome not a privilege but a right. In that sense, Swartz’s story is one thatneeds to be told and told and told again until his purpose has its full impact.So it’s forgivable that Knappenberger’s film is one-sided to a fault—anyone whothinks Swartz went too far appears to have turned down requests to interviewsand it would have made Aaron’s story stronger to hear from those who defeatedhim—since that one side continues to change the world. Aaron Swartzwas a prodigy. He was reading at the age of three. And he quickly becamefascinated with the way information and copyright worked in the internet age.We have this tool that’s designed in such a way that it could even the playingfield of arguably our most important commodity as a species—knowledge. Why aren’t weusing it the right way? As he grew up, Swartz became a modern protestor. Justas forward-thinkers before him used their righteous anger in civildisobedience through physical action, Aaron did so through technology, fighting against forprofit-corporations keeping information from the world. The internet was thegreat equalizer. “Now everyone has a license to speak, it’s a question of whogets heard.” Swartz couldhave crossed paths with the law at a number of points in his life but it camewhen he used MIT’s servers to download information and material that he thoughtshould be open to the public and not merely available for the privileged. Thegovernment, already openly-criticized by Swartz and others for the way ithandled information and privacy, pounced on Swartz. They followed him, theyspied on him, and they arrested him, going as far as strip searching a man whohad never presented a physical threat to anyone. His world shattered and, eventhough he would go to continue to be a leader during the investigation, evenhelping to stop the infamous SOPA from passing, he wouldn’t be the same and hecouldn’t face the pain. Advertisement Aaron Swartz’sstory should make you furious. In an era when real criminals of our financialcrisis ride limousines to dine with the President, our government overzealouslytried to put a man behind bars for decades because he tried to better theworld. You can disagree with the way he went about doing it (and I wish thefilm presented more of the other side against Aaron) but his intent is crystalclear in his presentations and speeches. In many ways, Aaron lived his lifeonline, openly communicating and inspiring others to use technology to uniteinstead of divide. Get angry at what happened to Aaron and then do something about it. In that sense, his story is far from over.