If the intimate Italian drama “Me and You” came from anunknown director rather thanBernardo Bertolucci, one of cinema’s modernmasters, would it be seeing U.S. distribution? Probably not. With interest insubtitled films in a state of sad and seemingly endless decline, this tale of aboy and his half-sister who hole up in their father’s basement to escape theworld might well feel too slight and marginal to attract the attention ofart-house distributors. But rather than suggesting why slight and marginal worksmight as well be avoided, the film points up the continuing benefits of anauteurist approach to cinema. Bertolucci is indeed a master, and “Me andYou” evidences numerous thematic connections to his earlier work as well asconstant proof of his distinctive gifts as a stylist. While it may not have thetransformative originality of “The Conformist” and “Last Tango in Paris” or theepic scale of “1900” and “The Last Emperor,” its pleasures are sufficient tofully reward the attentions of Bertolucci admirers—and perhaps even draw somenew fans. Advertisement Since serious back problems have rendered him unable tostand, Bertolucci has not released a film in nearly a decade. He might neverhave worked again, he has said, had he not discovered ways to direct from awheelchair and found a subject inNiccolo Ammaniti’s novella amenable to hislack of mobility. For these reasons, and the fact that he hadn’t made a film inItalian in 30 years, “Me and You” has an air of renewal and understatedebullience that is one of its chief attractions. In its early sections, the film’s story focuses on Lorenzo(Jacopo Olmo Antinori), a 14-year-old with a mop of tousled brown hair, apimply and usually sullen face, and the first fuzzy hints of a moustache. Thepicture of contemporary adolescent alienation, the kid has a therapist whothinks he’s making headway, though it’s clear Lorenzo finds school a huge dragand home even worse. His dad buys him expensive gifts but is present only onthe phone. His mother (Sonia Bergmasco), an attractive blonde, takes him out toan expensive restaurant, where he annoys her by asking if she would make lovewith him if they were the last two people left on earth—a droll flashback tothe incest theme of Bertolucci’s “Luna.” The kid’s only happy relationship is with his agedgrandmother (Veronica Lazar), but she seems to be in her final days. When hehalf-jokes that he wants his coffin placed on top of hers, it gets at what he’sreally after: total isolation. And he has a plan for that. When vacation rollsup and his mother drives him to the bus for a school skiing trip, he starts anargument that ends with her ejecting him from the car. He then returns to theold building where his family lives and secretes himself in the cellar, wherehe has constructed a hideaway that promises him a week in blissful solitude,listening to music on his headphones and fooling his parents with occasionalphone calls. But the idyll is almost immediately interrupted by thearrival of Olivia (Tea Falco), his older half-sister by a previous marriage ofhis father. She is 25 and model-beautiful but jittery and erratic in heractions. It’s clear that relations between the two have never been very good;there are resentments and grievances on both sides. His main wish, though, issimply to get rid of her, and at first he succeeds. She goes away, but thenreturns and threatens to scream loud enough to give away his ruse unless shegives her shelter. And it’s then that he learns sis has a particularlyself-indulgent kind of sickness—she’s a junkie. Advertisement For over half of its length, the action in “Me and You” isconfined to the basement where Lorenzo and Olivia hide out, and it’s almost asif Bertolucci chose to approach this as an interesting formal challenge: how tocreate an enclosed and claustrophobic situation that’s never static or boring.He and cinematographerFabio Cianchettiaccomplish this with constant changesin lighting and visual angles and Bertolucci’s trademark lexicon of varied andelegant camera movements. This is all not only subtly beautiful in itself, it’salso thematically and psychologically apposite: Because the outside world feelsso oppressive and threatening to Lorenzo and Olivia, it makes sense that thisplace of confinement would feel hospitable, strangely inviting, evenliberating. It is a place, too, where they are able to find a kind ofsolidarity in their troubles, and perhaps even begin to see beyond them. Thosefamiliar with Bertolucci’s work might expect that the attractive characters andclose quarters here could point toward an erotic destination, as did similarsituations in films ranging from “Last Tango” to “The Dreamers.” But Bertolucciis never one to remain stuck in the past. Here eros, the urge towardtranscendence, is not sexual but psychological. It’s a matter of pushing pastboundaries and finding healing in difficulty and self-renewal—much as thisgreat director did in making “Me and You.”