Most films require little or no knowledge on the viewer’spart of the filmmaker’s likeness or personal history. But folks who walk into“Closed Curtain” unfamiliar with Iranian directorJafar Panahiand his recenttravails are sure to find themselves utterly baffled and confounded. A kind of“film a clef,” the movie (co-credited toKambozia Partovi) is essentially apsychological self-portrait that depends on the viewer’s knowledge of Panahi’spast work and the strange limbo he has existed in since the Iranian governmentbanned him from working for 20 years—and then tacitly allowed him to go onmaking films “in secret.” Advertisement With films such as "The White Balloon," "The Circle" and"Crimson Gold" to his credit, Panahi was one of Iran’s most successful andinternationally lauded filmmakers when his outspokenness and political activismin the wake of Iran’s contested 2009 presidential election got him in troublewith the government. He was arrested and jailed for a time, and has creditedinternational protests with his eventual release. Nonetheless, he wassubsequently put on trial, convicted and given a draconian sentence thatincluded being banned from making films for two decades. Living under house arrest (and barred from leaving thecountry) since then, he has used digital cameras to make two films that havebeen smuggled out of Iran and gained acclaim at film festivals and art housesaround the world. In the droll "This Is Not a Film," he showed himself coopedup in his Tehran apartment and dealing with his de facto imprisonment byreflecting on his past work and continuing to film. Filmed in Panahi’s Caspian Sea vacation home, "ClosedCurtain" at first seems a very different kind of film. A middle-aged writer(Partovi) arrives at a seaside villa bearing luggage, and immediately beginscovering the house’s many picture windows with heavy black curtains. One of hisbags contains the reason for his secrecy: his dog Boy (played by a personablepooch who gives the best canine performance in recent memory), a pet the man isdetermined to keep hidden from the authorities who have declared dogs “impure”in Islamic law and therefore subject to confiscation and slaughter. The solitude of man and dog, though, is short-lived. Goingout at night to empty Boy’s litter box, the writer leaves the door open justlong enough for a young man and woman to rush inside breathlessly. They saythey are a brother and sister who were at a party that was broken up by policewho are now pursing them. The writer hears the police as they poke aroundoutside and, thinking the house empty, leave. The young man himself thendeparts, saying he will get a car and return, and quietly warning the writerthat his sister is suicidal. Advertisement Something definitely seems amiss with the girl. With hersing-song voice and inexplicable smile, she gets under the writer’s skin fromthe first moments they are together, invading parts of the house that hedoesn’t want her in and making cryptic, insinuating remarks. At first hesuspects she may be a police plant, but then sees that she’s too weird forthat. After annoying him for a while, she seems to have left the house. Thenshe reappears and aggressively begins ripping the black curtains from thewindows. At which point, roughly halfway through the film (inevitablespoiler alert here), Panahi himself walks into the frame, and we see that, inaddition to baring the windows, the removal of the curtains also revealsItalian and French posters for some of his earlier films. This startling momentrecalls a similar one in the middle of Panahi’s "The Mirror" when the littlegirl playing the film’s main character suddenly declares she’s not acting anymore and runs away from the film location, to be followed by other cameras.That “coup de cinema,” though, took us from fiction to something closer todocumentary, whereas this one transitions to a kind of subjective surrealism—call it a documentary about the inside of Panahi’s head in recent years. What follows resembles a narrative broken into shards.Sometimes the focus stays on Panahi as he moves around the house and interactswith visiting neighbors. Sometimes we return to the writer, his dog and thegirl. Sometimes the filmmaker seems aware of these “characters,” sometimes not.Occasionally, the tone is gentle and affirming, as when a good-hearted neighborassures Panahi, “You’ll be able to work again,” while also counseling, “Thereare more things to life than work.” Yet there are also darker moments, as when characters areseen walking into the sea to commit suicide, a la Norman Maine in "A Star IsBorn" and Roger Wade in "The Long Goodbye." The girl does this first, yet laterreappears. Then we see Panahi do it, but before the action is completed, thefilm reverses and he moves out of the sea again—one of several instanceswhere we are reminded of the mechanics of filmmaking. Advertisement If the dominant mood of "This Is Not a Film" was defiant,the main feeling here is melancholic. In implicitly confessing to suicidalimpulses (as his mentorAbbas Kiarostamidid in "Taste of Cherry"), Panahishows how low his confinement has brought him. He still works in order to stayengaged with life and cinema, and this film’s graceful framing, lighting andcamera movement testify to his skills as a stylist, yet the movie also raisesthe question of how many more films he can make about himself and hisfrustration before hitting a creative wall. Kiarostami pioneered the Iranian tradition of films about filmsand filmmakers with movies including "Close-Up" and "Through the Olive Trees."After venturing into the same territory with "The Mirror," Panahi’s work grewmore political, and politics eventually landed him in a situation where theonly ready subjects were a filmmaker (himself) and his work, which has beendrastically delimited by the government. He responded with imaginative filmsthat are invigorating and courageous, yet one wishes that he would soon gainthe freedom to make other kinds of movies again.