Not a whole lot happens in "The Empty Hours," a new Mexicanfilm written and directed byAarón FernándezLesur, here making his secondfeature (his first was 2007’s "Used Parts"). The main characters don’t evenlearn each other’s names until about an hour into the picture. The movie has asmall story but a big theme; the theme being experience, and it conveys the emotionsand moods of its characters by taking things nice and slow. That works to the movie’s advantage because its actual storyis not an unfamiliar one. Sebastian (Kristyan Ferrer) is a still-boyish17-year-old whose ailing uncle entrusts him with the oversight of his lovemotel in desolate Veracruz while the uncle goes off to have his medical issuesaddressed. Sebastian is seemingly game—he’s given his uncle the impression thathe wants to learn the lodging business—but he’s really not sure what he wants,and he initially balks when told he’s going to have to do the room cleaninguntil the night manager hires a new maid. Said night manager is pretty lax inalmost every department, so Sebastian ends up doing a bunch of duties longerthan he thought he would, but he doesn’t seem to mind. Largely, it seems,because there’s not much else going on in the general vicinity. At some points,he notices the young woman Miranda (Adriana Paz), who, we learn, is in the areato sell a bunch of condos; the motel is where she entertains herself with herindolent lover. As the lover becomes more indolent, and less reliable, Mirandastrikes up an acquaintance with Sebastian. Advertisement And, it is not really a spoiler to say, certain things leadto other things. What makes the difference with this movie is its almostseductive sense of space. The color palette of “The Empty Hours” mixes subduedblues and grays with skin tones of tan and walls of white; the visuals are asrelaxed as the pacing. As a result the alliance between Sebastian and Mirandacomes about in a way that seems organic as opposed to contrived or forced. It’salso commendable that Lesur spends as much time and energy detailing Miranda’semotional landscape as he does Sebastian’s; movies such as these have a generaltendency to celebrate the male character’s coming of age, and treat the femalewho provides the epiphany-into-manhood-or-something-like-it as a kind ofaccessory. "The Empty Hours," then, manages to be a movie that’s genuinelyabout the two lonely people who form its core. It depicts their interactionswith delicacy, perception, and genuine, albeit gentle, humor. As most movies ofits kind do, it ends leaving its characters in a somewhat suspended state; partof the wisdom of this movie is that it depicts life as something that oftenleaves those who live it in a state of suspension—it isn’t all “defining”moments, and, as it happens, the defining moments can be the ones whosesignificance we don’t realize as they’re actually happening. "The Empty Hours"conveys all this in a way that’s modest but also engaging, provided the vieweris ready for its almost casual rhythm. Not trying to make any galvanicstatement on behalf of either its director or contemporary Mexican cinema ingeneral, the movie impresses nevertheless.