There are moments of tenderness and honest human emotion buried in the frustrating “A Long Way Down” but one has to work far too hard and give far too much credit to the over-qualified cast to grab at them. Basedon a hit book byNick Hornby(“High Fidelity,” “About a Boy”) that contained anemotional minefield maudlin enough that the film took nearly a decade to comeinto existence even though the Hornby bandwagon was full in the ‘00s, “A LongWay Down” is a textbook case of over-direction. Characters laugh too hard; thescore by Dario Marianelli alternates between wispy guitar strumming andheartstring-pulling piano tinkling; the suicidal characters literally dance to “IWill Survive” at one point. You get the idea. Honest emotion falls victim topoor filmmaking again. Advertisement Martin Sharp (Pierce Brosnan) wants to kill himself on NewYear’s Eve. He has tumbled from the height of popularity after a sex scandalwith an underage girl destroyed his family and sees no reason to go on if he’snot famous. He climbs to the roof of the Toppers Building, a notorious suicidespot; so notorious that he runs into three other people on this frosty, fatefulevening. Maureen (Toni Collette) has a severely disabled son and can’t go on.Jess (Imogen Poots) is heartbroken and J.J. (Aaron Paul) tells his new matesthat he has brain cancer. The four agree to delay their life-ending untilValentine’s Day, keeping tabs on each other over the next month-and-a-half and,of course, forming a unique bond. When the “Topper House Four” is outed in the press (it turnsout that Jess’ dad is a famous politician, making her bait for tabloidheadlines), they become semi-celebrities. To escape the attention, they jet offto a resort, frolic in the surf, grow closer, learn the importance of life, get a tan,etc. “A Long Way Down” is a film that’s afraid of its subjectmatter: suicidal depression. One never senses any actual danger or urgency inthe plight of these characters to battle their demons before they kill them, and the lack of any sense that these people might actually end their lives drains the piece of drama.Their depression is merely a plot device. J.J. was once the frontman for a bandcalled Gepetto and he laughs about one of the hackneyed lines that he wrote: “Idon’t mind the pain, it’s the hope that kills me.” WriterJack ThorneanddirectorPascal Chaumeilpresent the line as a bit of humor about a wannabegrunge band that never was but it’s indicative of the problem with the film. The movie neverminds the pain. It doesn’t pay attention to it. We don’t feel it. Well, most ofthe time. The always-great Collette somehow finds a way to make the mostmaudlin and manipulative character arc of the quartet hit most of the right beats. The film's greatest value is further proof that Collette makes everything she's in better. To be fair, Poots is quite good here as well, but both actressesare weighed down by a director who didn’t trust them. Jess lying on her bedsinging the BeeGees classic “Tragedy” should be done with a wink, not with atreacly score underneath. When the foursome realizes they’ve written theirnon-suicide pact on the back of Maureen’s suicide note, the actors have beendirected to laugh in response in an exaggerated, overblown way. It soundspicky, I know, but “A Long Way Down” never registers emotionally because it isconstantly reminding you it’s a movie. And it’s not a very good one. Advertisement