In movies, there’s “character driven,” and then there’s“CHARACTER driven.”Earl Lynn Nelson, who plays one of the two lead roles in“Land Ho!” a truly disarming and beguiling movie co-directed by Martha StevensandAaron Katz, seems from all indications to be an all-caps character. Hisexuberant sense of senior-citizen mischief is the motor that drives the movie. Nelson plays Mitch, an aging surgeon who turns up at hisnewly-ex-brother-in-law Colin’s house one fine afternoon, ostensibly to cheerColin up. Colin is played by Paul Eenhorn, who made a big impression among indiemoviegoers with his work in the drama "This Is Martin Bonner," and, here,Eenhorn’s playing a character not unlike himself, an Australian transplant tothe U.S. As for Nelson, and his character Mitch, they seem like good old boysthrough and through. The character Mitch is not your father’s son of the South,though. Sure, he is affable, possessed of a big appetite, and full of yarns;he’s also an unapologetic horndog and a persistent pot smoker. He’s the kind ofgood time that can drive a less exuberant person a little nuts, and you can seehim starting to do that to Colin even before he drops his surprise announcementon his buddy: that he’s booked them both a first-class excursion to Iceland. Advertisement Colin responds to this with more than a little bemusement.Mitch responds, as he will, by describing how great it’s going to be, placingspecial emphasis on all the especially-good-in-Iceland food they’ll gorge on.Unimpressed, Colin remarks, “I don’t like lobster.” Well, too bad: the pull of Mitch is irresistible. And soonenough, the two older fellas are in Reykjavik. Iceland, in this, functionsrather like the Scottish highlands in theMichael Powell/Emeric Pressburgermovie "I Know Where I’m Going:" a very nearly enchanted land full of unusualgeographic features that allows its characters to evolve to a new level. Thecomparison risks overselling what this movie’s about, though; while "I Know" isa grand romance, "Land Ho!" is not all that invested in narrative momentum;it’s of a modest, anecdotal scale. The environment is depicted beautifully, andthe duo’s adventures, and occasional bickering, culminate in an episode thatgives Colin’s character an opportunity for some healing. All the while, Mitch ishis irrepressible self, throwing money around, advising a female cousin(once-removed) and her traveling friend to buy some “feminine” clothes for adinner that evening, asking awkward personal questions of a honeymooningcouple, and so on. He’ll have to reveal the vulnerability behind his brashnesseventually, we know; as it happens, that vulnerability doesn’t collapse Mitch’spersonality so much as justify it, an interesting route for the filmmakers totake. Co-directors Katz and Stevens (Stevens, who directed Nelson in the indie“Pilgrim Song,” sold Katz on the collaboration by merely suggesting the idea ofputting Nelson and Eenhorn in Iceland together) collect oodles of funny andlovely moments, merely recording their performers interacting with theenvironment, paying tribute to the natural beauty of Iceland (which, in my ownexperience, really IS a magical setting), while also presenting theiractors/characters to the audience with real "what a piece of work is man" awe."Land Ho!" is both a small film and an unabashed wannabe crowd pleaser, butit’s also one whose subtle capturing of behavior and longing resonates withclarity that stays with you.