I believe that anyone who’s had frustrating dealings withthe revenue service of the United States government ought to be able toempathize his or her way into feeling a wisp of sympathy for actor NicolasCage. While we don’t have his own confirmation on this one way or another, it’swidely assumed that the tax troubles publicized five years ago motivated what’sseen as his current “anything for a paycheck” mode of working, which seeshim starring in such schlock as a reboot of the "Left Behind" movies,themselves based on novels that, let’s be honest, are crackpot extrapolationson Christian beliefs that actually have no basis in scripture…well, let me notgo there. Point is, he’s doing oodles of stuff that, according to conventionalwisdom, no Best Actor Academy Award-winner would've ever allowed himself to besullied by. (The conventional wisdom has clearly never heard of the movie"Inchon," but I digress. Look it up.) Advertisement The ever-committed actor is invariably the most interestingthing in whatever schlock he turns up in, and that’s the case with "Rage," apayback thriller that’s not quite a gloss on "Taken." The reason he’s the mostinteresting thing here is not because his performances is particularly intenseor eccentric but because everything around him is so wretchedly dull. “Pete,I’m out of the game, you know that,” Cage’s character, Paul, announces to acharacter named Pete, aptly enough, early on in the movie; dialogue like thatonly means the character’s going to be drawn back into the game at some pointin the movie. Paul is a one-time criminal turned building contractor, which isa great profession for a one-time criminal to be in because there’s so littlecorruption in that field. Anyway, he has a teenage daughter who’s the light ofhis life, and a teenage wife as well. OK,Rachel Nichols, who plays the wife,isn’t teenage, but she sure looks it, and once the aforementioned teenagedaughter goes missing, it’s a pretty sure bet as to how she’ll end up, asmovies such as this don’t have room for more than one teenage girl character,as such movies are all about men and what they’ll do if you mess with theteenage girls in their lives. Once his kid goes missing, Paul enlistshis old running buddies from the criminal days, one played byMichael McGrady,who comes off like a buffed-up, trying-to-be-all-serious Larry the Cable Guy,andMax Ryan, whose business card should read “The Poor Man’sTitus Welliver,”and off they go committing sadistic acts and joking about it, breaking upunderground card games and doing other forms of “where is she?” mischief,eventually, albeit unwittingly, starting a gang war. All this is much to thechagrin of a sympathetic cop played byDanny Gloverand a wheelchair-boundmobster played byPeter Stormare.This brings me back to my sympathy-for-Cage theme. Everybodygives Nic a hard time for these paycheck roles in wretched movies—and believeme, "Rage" is pretty wretched, a dull, lifeless thing even in spite of itsefforts, old-school grindhouse picture-style, to put an exploitation-nihilistspin on the dad-with-action-movie-skills-on-the-rampage boilerplate—but, youknow, Peter Stormare actually used to work forIngmar Bergman, and he earns nodisapprobation for turning up in the likes of this, let alone for egregiouslyhamming it up as he does. One of the odd features of these latter-day wannabe B-pictures is the way they pander to their more ostensibly distinguished castmember, in this case giving the characters played by Stormare, Glover, andfinally Cage these Big Dramatic Monologues, each filled with hot air lines suchas “Not everyone could get out as clean as you could.” The only way to get outof "Rage" clean is not to get into it in the first place. Advertisement