One can learn a good deal from watching "Among Ravens."Those viewers keen on noting the passing of historical time will find out, ifthey didn’t know already, that the demographic sometimes known as “GenerationX” is now old enough to warrant its own "The Big Chill"-wannabe “what happened toour values and aspirations” movie. Viewers keen on birds will learn an awfullot from the movie’s pivotal character, Chad, a self-described “naturefilmmaker,” a bit younger than most of the film’s adult characters, who isdeposited into a group of pals chilling at a prime piece of real estate pornover a July 4 weekend, and who—when he’s not being kinda-sorta Asperger’s ish(the character’s symptoms, which are depicted in glossy movie generalized ticsto begin with, are ultimately meant to signal a kind of mystic presence)—dropssome choice morsels of science about our flying friends. Much of thisinformation is intended to work as metaphor. As in “if the baby bird isunfeathered, you can look for a nest…and if you find it, you can bring ithome.” Advertisement The movie is also apt, though, to bring up some questions inthe mind of a viewer. I myself was kind of curious as to how, at a time when itseems so many of the best film directors are moving over to television becausethe feature filmmaking process can’t accommodate their artistic ambitions, thispompous, know-something-ish, navel-gazing, indulgent, pissy, priggish, albeitreasonably well-photographed, pile of sick got financed to completion. Because"Among Ravens" is, finally, a thoroughly noxious concoction. “Ravens were once among the most colorful of birds,” beginsthe narration from the young girl Joey (Johnny Sequoyah, the best performer inthe movie). Joey sees her extended family as raven-like. Her biological dad, abest-selling author named Saul King, who refers to himself as “The King,” lists“An Unkindness of Ravens” as among his tomes. So the metaphors, you see, starthitting right off the bat, as the movie introduces a schlubby life-coachcharacter (Calum Grant)  and hissuper-post-hippie-dippie teen girlfriend (Castille Landon, playing a terriblyunappealing variant on theMeg Tillycharacter in "The Big Chill"), Joey’sconflicted-about-being-bourgeois mom Wendy (Amy Smart), Wendy’sstrapped-for-income but not-wanting-to-show it husband Ellis (Joshua Leonard),all bantering and trading success stories until oddball Chad (Will McCormack)comes along. Thestranger-who-upends-the-lives-of-complacent-characters trope is one with longcinematic history, and as soon as you get a long look at McCormack’s goofy mugyou hope this isn’t going to be a "Teorema"-style seducing scenario. Thankfully,it is not. Chad shakes things up just by acting inappropriate (inappropriateenough that in a plausible scenario, Ellis would have been driving him to thenearest Super 8 about three minutes after Chad had showed up in his diningroom) and then being strangely “wise,” just like little Joey. The tyke has herbig moment of gravitas when, after her mom compares life to a garden andexplains that sometimes you need to pull out the weeds, she asks, “Who decideswhat’s a weed?” Advertisement