“Video Games: The Movie” doesn’t just preach to the choir,it puts that choir on a pedestal and costumes it in golden robes. First, apersonal admittance: I’m a bit of a video game nut. I can vividly remember the firsttime I played “Super Mario Bros.,” I had Commodore and Atari systems, I playedmultiple “Zork” games, have owned at least a dozen consoles in my life, and I have written hundreds of video game reviews for a number of outlets,including About.com. It’s important that you not write off criticism of a movieabout the history of video games as coming from someone who isn’t in tune withthe culture. I’m in tune, man. And I still think “Video Games: The Movie” is amissed opportunity; a documentary that plays too much like fan service,ignoring actual insight or even detailed history of its chosen subject in favorof unapologetic adoration. Video games are great! OK, where do we go fromthere? Advertisement Writer/director Jeff Snead sets up his nostalgic approach tothe material with an opening credits sequence that essentially runs from “Pong”to the 2013 games that launched new systems like the Playstation 4 and XboxOne. You can almost hear fans calling out the characters—“Link!” “Mario!” “Megaman!”“Lara Croft”—on this visual journey through the development of the form. “VideoGames: The Movie” is steeped in nostalgia. Seeing old Playstation commercialsof Crash Bandicoot harassing Nintendo offices or the original ads forthe infamously horrible tie-in with “E.T.: The Extra-Terrestrial” have inherentnostalgic value but Snead seems more interested in them then the actual historyof the form. He’s more excited by reliving the signposts than revealing how theroad got paved or where it’s going. Snead didn’t have too much difficulty getting a fewluminaries of video game culture, both celebrities who have been vocal fans andgame designers themselves, to discuss what they love about games from “BurgerTime” to “Metal Gear Solid.”Sean Astinnarrates the doc and Snead intercutsmemories of video games past fromWil Wheaton,Zach Braff,Donald Faison, MaxLandis, and more. He also got some time with pioneers like Peter Molyneux andHideo Kojima but doesn’t allow them nearly enough time in front of the camera.Molyneux talking about the “art debate,” which Roger so infamously joinedhere,is enough conversational material for at least half an hour but Snead moves onquickly. “Video Games: The Movie” has the same attention deficit disorder asour parents’ generation claimed those harmless-looking Nintendo cartridgeswould give us. Maybe they were right. Lest you think there’s any exaggeration regarding the fanservice and self-importance of “Video Games: The Movie,” you should know thatthe film includes quotes by Gandhi and JFK. This is the context in which videogames are placed. And when Snead gets to actual issues like the art debate, theimpact of games on violence, the idea that Facebook is actually a video game,and, worst of all, the online community, he can’t concentrate on any of themlong enough to register. The online stuff is particularly nauseating in thatSnead frames online gaming as a major step in human evolution, ignoring anypossible criticisms like the loss of productivity or the bullying and downrightvile language/behavior that often happens in the online world. I’m an onlinegamer. I love it. But you’d learn more about the communities that sprout uparound games by watching “The King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters” than whatplays like an infomercial for Playstation Plus. Advertisement “Video Games: The Movie” actually turns it around in thefinal third as Snead finally allows for some serious discussion of the currentstate of the industry. I think the history of video games were too much of anostalgic treat for him to avoid but his film finally loses the sugar rush when it comes to thepresent and future. The film gets into the process behind masterpieces like “TheLast of Us,” discussing the importance of authorship on the part of the gamerand just how many moving parts have to click into place to make a great game. Personally,I think we’re in an amazing time for video games and that they will only becomea deeper, more rewarding part of our entertainment culture. But I thought thatbefore the movie too.