"Alive Inside," directed byMichael Rossato-Bennett, is apassionate documentary with a lot of valuable information to impart, and alaudable humanist agenda to push. Unfortunately, it’s also not a particularlygood movie. In fact, at certain points it can be an actively annoying one. The subject is how music can awaken the minds of peoplesuffering from dementia and/or Alzheimer’s disease (the movie also chronicles,briefly, the music therapy undergone by an MS sufferer). It shows patientsreacting to exposure to what had been their favorite music in a different timein their lives, and this footage, although it arguably infantilizes theindividuals depicted, also depicts impressive results. The movie goes on toindict the American healthcare system/industry, which, apparently, is moreinterested in pushing costly pharmaceutical treatments than any kind oftherapeutic model. As a result, souls, hearts, and lives are receding whenmaybe they don’t have to be. Advertisement Pertinent well-known experts make their views known.NeurologistOliver Sacks, the author of a book on the effects of music on thebrain, offers solid science; musicianBobby McFerrinis an articulate proponentof those qualities of music that can’t be scientifically quantified. They’reilluminating. Mr. Rossato-Bennett, alas, is less engaging, and he’s themost insistent voice in the film. Crafting the movie as a work of activism,he’s pretty much the anti-Nicolas-Philibert, whose films such as "In The LandOf The Deaf" immersed viewers in a different state of being. He frames theexperience of the patients through his own lens explicitly from the very start,stating in his narration of working with physician and music therapy pioneerDan Cohen, “What unfolded that first day moved me so much…” that he had toetcetera, etcetera. The narration (“Wewent looking for answers”) and off-screen questions (“You like the music you’rehearing? Tell me about the music”) are insistently pushy and intrusivethroughout—and the visual approach is a greeting-card one, at best. A filmmaker who’s always telling us what we ought to befeeling is usually one who cannot actually evoke feeling. And so it is here.The Sacks and McFerrin mini-episodes start coming off as sweet relief asRossato-Bennett starts laying on the faux-"Koyaanisqatsi" slow-and-fast motionshots, and things reach a particularly eye-rolling level near the end, when themovie turns into an advertisement for itself, reprising a CNN segment in whichthe filmmaker and Cohen talk about a patient-reaction clip that went “viral” onsocial media. This is understandable as an activist tactic; I get that. But asa segment in a feature documentary targeting an audience of adults, it feltcondescending in an especially unwholesome way. Whether or not this approachactually succeeds in getting changes made to the system, the subject, and thehuman subjects, deserve something a lot better than what this movie gives them.It doesn’t feel great to have to say that, but it’s the truth.