The opening scenes of Manual Martín Cuenca’s “Cannibal” arestrikingly effective. The credits roll slowly over a long shot of a gas stationat night; florescent lights surrounded by pitch-black darkness. With memoriesofGeorge Sluizer’s "The Vanishing," and that eerie isolation we all feel insuch places, Cuenca creates a sense of unease with just one establishing shot,and he amplifies the intensity when the credits end, the camera pans down to awheel & dashboard, and Cuenca reveals that it’s been a POV shot: a madman chasing theweary travelers at the station. What follows is equally effective as Carlos(Antonio de la Torre) chases his targets, causing an accident, and carting avictim home for, well, dinner. Carlos is the “title character,” a man who eatsthe flesh of other men and has been so isolated emotionally that the intrusionof two women into his life shatters his precise worldview. Advertisement Carlos is a well-respected tailor in Granada. He also eatspeople. Cuenca avoids gore but gets the point across in moments that don't involve actual ingestion, such as when Carlosplaces his first victim on a table and smells her body like a chef smells apiece of fish for freshness. This is not “Hannibal”-level grotesquery but moreglimpses of a terrifying life lived behind closed doors. In one of the film’sbest moments, Carlos’ new neighbor Alexandra (Olimpia Melinte) opens hisrefrigerator to see that it’s filled only with bloody packages, to which shesays, “You only have meat. Why do you only have meat?” Shortly after that inquiry with no good answer, Alexandra goes missing. Hersister Nina (also played by Melinte) comes to investigate the disappearance andfinds herself drawn to the quiet tailor who lives downstairs. She may findsomething intriguing about the supportive Carlos but we know not only is he aserial killer but probably ate her sister. You can imagine how well that loveaffair unfolds. The entire first act has that visual sparseness of theopening scene: Carlos watching his new neighbor through a window, doing hisjob, preparing his meals, etc. There’s an almost complete lack of dialogue thatfuels the unease. It makes sense that Carlos wouldn’t talk to himself. However,as “Cannibal” progresses it becomes both more traditional in its narrative andfrustrating in its lack of depth. Cannibalism is really an unexplored part ofCarlos’ personality in the film. A single episode of NBC’s “Hannibal” getsdeeper into the disturbed mind of a man who eats other men than the entirety of“Cannibal.” While it’s somewhat respectable that Cuenca turns something asinherently wrong as cannibalism into little more than a protagonist’s fatal flaw, ignoring itsgreater implications and even how Carlos developed such a nasty habit makes fora film that can feel hollow. There are moments in “Cannibal” that hint at a better film:That opening scene. A terrifying sequence in the middle of pitch-black night inwhich a naked woman knows the rolling waters away from shore that likely holddeath are preferable to the mysterious man on the beach waiting for her in theother direction. A few revelatory beats in the final act. And the performersare all strong, especially Melinte. Despite those moments, knowing as little about Carlos as we do makes for a filmthat frustrates. Why does he push outAlexandra but invite Nina in? As hard as it is to imagine consistency in themind of a cannibal, there are actions that Carlos takes in regard to Nina thatfeel like screenwriting devices. Is he trapping her? Is he falling in love atfirst sight? Why has a killer of women found someone to be kind to? Thereseems to be deep sexual dysfunction, of course, but, like too many elements ofthe film, it’s never really explored. Ultimately, Cuenca keeps us in thatopening shot—far from the action—and never makes the narrative switch to reallygive us the POV of a “Cannibal.” Advertisement