As is so often the case in Japanese animation, displacementand emotional upheaval lead to interaction with the supernatural in thedelicate and effective “A Letter to Momo,” finally opening stateside today andexpanding over the next month after years building buzz on the festival circuit(it played TIFF in 2011) and even longer in its detailed, hand-drawnproduction. Writer/directorHiroyuki Okiuralast made waves over a decade agowith “Jin-Roh: The Wolf Brigade” but this complex, delicate project took sevenyears to make and a surprisingly long time to work its way through theinternational film market to U.S. theaters. With the recent announcement thatStudio Ghibli may no longer be creating its own films after the retirement ofHayao Miyazakiand will move on to merely manage its impressiveand influential library, fans of this kind of animated storytelling have highhopes for “Momo.” Those expectations are mostly fulfilled thanks to a deepemotional understanding of grief on Okiura’s part and the captivating visualsthat accompany the story of a girl who needs some otherworldly help when she’sforced to grow up far too quickly. Advertisement Momo Miyaura is the Alice of this adventure into Wonderland,an 11-year-old girl forced to relocate with her mother after the passing of herfather. Momo and her asthmatic mother move back to mom’s childhood home, anisolated island named Shio, far from the hustle and bustle of Tokyo in whichMomo was raised. Momo doesn’t fit in. She’s too frightened to jump in the waterwith the other local kids. She clutches the letter from her father that he wasplanning to write just before he died that says merely, “Dear Momo…” What didhe want to say to her in his final moments? Will Momo ever know? Or will she beable to stop obsessing over past thoughts unexpressed? Into this emotional upheaval drops three imps from the “Above”—Kawa,Mame and Iwa. Momo is not supposed to be able to see this memorably designedcreatures but she can and they become something of a support structure for agirl dealing with the unimaginable grief of losing a parent. She essentiallytraps them in this world, holding the totem that keeps them here instead ofreturning to the other side. Giving an 11-year-old control over passage betweenthis world and the next after something as uncontrollable as a father’s deathmakes for a beautifully connected film on a spiritual level. Overall, Okiurastays very focused on Momo’s emotional journey, which is smart. It’s not asfantastical as “Spirited Away” or many other films about children who encounterthe supernatural upon being forced to deal with death, as Momo always stays front and center. The final moments of her journey out of despair are powerfully emotional. In fact, “A Letter to Momo” is more playful than magical.The differentiation in exaggerated design between the three imps that befriend Momo is remarkablyeffective and their actions are, as is common with magical creatures inJapanese animation, downright childish at times. Kawa fends off a wild boarwith a magical fart in slow-motion; the kind of moment that would probably earna film like this critical scorn for gross-out humor were it in a DreamWorksfilm but works in the fabric of this piece overall. They dance, lick Momo’s legfor attention, eat like slobs—they’re designed in such a way that they seemmore childish than Momo, which is essential to her journey to adulthood throughgrief. There are times where one feels the two-hour length of “ALetter to Momo,” especially in the over-long first act—it takes almost half anhour for Momo to interact with the imps that will become the backbone of the story.Even scenes that work, such as a climax on a rain-soaked bridge, feel like theycould have been trimmed by a few hand-drawn frames. Maybe then it wouldn’t havetaken so long for a film this sweet, delicate, and fun to get to U.S.audiences. Advertisement