When does a bad, cheap horror movie becomes something moreoffensively horrible? When it pegs its generic nonsense on real-life tragedy andbecomes exploitation.Ben Ketai’s “Beneath,” not to be confused with the LarryFessenden film of the same name from last year, is the kind of mediocrity onefinds on The Movie Channel on a Saturday night and pretty easily dismisses.There are a few decent performances, some (but not enough) moments ofclaustrophobia and it seems harmless enough. But the reason “Beneath” is adifferent level of bad comes down to that opening crawl that claims that it’s “Basedon true events.” How so, you ask? Mines have collapsed on people before. That’sabout it. Yes, this is a film that takes the tragedies that occured in Beaconsfield in 2006 and, of course, the internationallyinfamous incident in Chile in 2013 and turns it into a knock-off of “TheDescent.” It wouldn’t be an issue if Ketai was interested at all in exploringthe psychology of what happens to people trapped underground—that wouldactually make for an interesting, non-exploitative drama—but he’s not. At all.He wants to make a cheap horror movie. Well, he’s done that. Advertisement George Marsh (Jeff Fahey) is retiring after years as awell-respected coal miner. Of course, he has one last day on the job. Ofcourse, his inexperienced daughter Samantha (Kelly Noonan) is going to joinhim. Of course, well, you know what happens next. George, Samantha, and theirgroup of miners are stuck after a drilling accident leads to a collapse. Withthe methane underground not being blown out at the right rate, the air isgetting “bad” quickly, leading to possible hallucinations. When Sam sees afellow miner’s face melt like at the end of “Raiders of the Lost Ark,” is shegoing crazy or is there something supernatural going on “Beneath” the surface? Ignoring the exploitation issue, “Beneath” never picks atone. It’s been reported that Ketai came on to a project that was 100%supernatural in nature, more of a straight riff onNeil Marshall’s “The Descent”than a film that questions if the miners fighting for survival are going crazyor not. Honestly, that was probably a better film because at least it belongedto a genre. The tone, story, characters here all feel lost in the blandin-between. It’s just dull when it needs to click. It’s not fun enough to begrindhouse or real enough to be intense on a dramatic level. And so it’snothing. The only few redeeming virtues of “Beneath” come inperformance. Jeff Fahey works in the right material, such as “Grindhouse,” andhe grounds (no pun intended) this piece in a bit of personality. Noonan isactually better before they go underground, as she seems like she mightactually be developing a character in the opening scene, only to watch her roleget turned into a standard damsel-in-distress when the rocks hit the fan. Andsome of the supporting cast break through the tedium to find character beats,especiallyBrent BriscoeandJoey Kern. It’s just too bad they’re trapped in amovie that doesn’t care. Advertisement