Anton Corbijn’s “A Most Wanted Man” has an added and perhapsunwanted gravity by virtue of forever bearing the title of “The Last LeadingRole ofPhilip Seymour Hoffman.” Watching one of the great American actors embody his final leading man gives the entire piece the air of a haunting, particularlybecause PSH’s character is such a world-weary, melancholic guy, someone whoseems to be out of time and patience. It has been difficult to sever the truthof cinema’s loss from his characters when watching Hoffman’s work since hispassing but this is the only time in which it feels like his tragic death hasactually changed the final product (it was somehow easier to get past in "God’sPocket," the "Capote" screening at Ebertfest and I imagine it will be in "Mockingjay"later this year). Corbijn keeps the action of "A Most Wanted Man" at arms length or greater, never finding the heart of the piece despite mostly solid performances and strong production values. He allows us to stay disengaged from the narrative itself and to bedistracted by how much the movie world has lost. Advertisement Hoffman plays Gunther Bachmann, a man trapped in bureaucracy and shackled by a government that doesn’t give him the trust ortools he needs to do his job. Bachmann is an intelligence expert in Hamburg,Germany, a place that will never be the same in terms of espionage because itserved as the home base for the 9/11 hijackers. How did the entire intelligencecommunity there not see that coming? Since that fateful day, Bachmann and histeam (which includesDaniel BruhlandNina Hoss) have been forced to work on anever-shifting landscape. The government wants to hammer down on any nail thatlooks out of place but Bachmann knows that it’s the long, patient game thatreaps the biggest rewards in the world of espionage. Bachmann stumbles upon one of the biggest cases of hiscareer when a Russian man named Issa Karpov (Grigoriy Dobrygin) arrives inHamburg, seeking asylum and his notoriously evil father’s massive fortune. Issais a half-Chechen, half-Russian Muslim, a title that raises every possible redflag in the eyes of Bachmann’s team and those above him. Bachmann’s superiorswant to grab Issa immediately. Bachmann knows that finding outwhyIssa arrived in Hamburg is more important than just capturing him. Sothe follow game begins. Issa tracks down a banker (the always-effectiveWillem Dafoe), seeking his father’sdirty money. He also forms a friendship with a human rights activist namedAnnabel Richter played hollowly byRachel McAdams, who ends up an important cogin Le Carre’s machine, as do a CIA operative played byRobin Wrightand asuspicious Muslim leader played byHomayoun Ershadi. As in "Tinker TailorSoldier Spy" and "The Constant Gardener," everyone has a role to play in thespy game. And it’s remarkable how much tension Le Carre can draw withoutmuch violence or traditional action at all. In "A Most Wanted Man," everydecision, every admittance, every secret revealed or held can collapse thehouse of cards that Bachmann needs to stay upright to stop another 9/11. It isa vision of the spy game as one of neverending frustrations and roadblocks. Advertisement It is also a cold, distant film; more than it needed to be. “ConstantGardner” and “Tinker Tailor” drew audiences into their complex world throughtheir relatable characters, mostly the pair played so expertly byRachel WeiszandGary Oldman, respectively, but Corbijn offers no such channel into “A Most Wanted Man.”There are glimpses of humanity in Hoffman’s staccato German-accented deliverybut the problem comes in the dynamic between Annabel and Issa. This should bethe heat and emotion of the film, balanced against the cold visual palette thatCorbijn and his team have chosen for the rest of it. Amidst the metal ofsurveillance fans and glass windows of conference rooms in which life and deathdecisions are being made, there is a tortured, broken soul of a Muslim/Chechenyoung man looking for anything human to latch on to. Sadly, Corbijn doesn’t seeminterested enough in the characters of Issa and Annabel, making both of themmere plot devices. Anton Corbijn is a detailed, precise filmmaker, a fact thatbrought a fascinating level of detail to the underrated "The American." Here, hisprecision plays up Le Carre’s hopelessness in a spy game that one knows willnever work out the right way for all parties involved. In today’s world ofespionage, someone is always going to lose. It's far from a complete failure but the flaws of “A Most Wanted Man” remind us not of how much humanityand hope we’ve lost internationally since 9/11 but how much we’ve lost by sayinggoodbye to an incredible actor.