Concertfilms, especially of the stand-up comedy variety, are about the closest thingout there to truly critic-proof movies--they are essentially the cinematicequivalent of a souvenir T-shirt and are aimed so completely at the dedicatedfan base of the performer in question that anyone who isn't a hardcore fanaticcan feel like an outsider while watching one of them. The only stand-up filmsthat have ever managed to transcend their limitations and reach out to a wideraudience are Richard Pryor's "Live in Concert" and "Live on theSunset Strip" and that was due almost entirely to Pryor's drop-deadbrilliance on the stage transcending the limitations of the form, especiallyregarding the inevitable lack of connection between the performer and thepeople sitting in the multiplex. Most of the other films of this type havetended to be indifferently produced pieces of product that hang around theatersfor a week or two before going into constant rotation on Comedy Central. Advertisement That is certainly the case with "TheFluffy Movie," a recording of a performance given by popularMexican-American comedian Gabriel "Fluffy" Iglesias before a largeand largely adoring crowd at the HP Pavilion in San Jose. Fans of his style ofhumor will no doubt enjoy it (as most of the people at the screening I attendedseemed to) but anyone going into the film cold, as I did, will probably find itto be too much of a not-that-good thing that might have been satisfactory ontelevision but not so much as something worth actually going out and forkingover $12 to see in a theater. This is kind of a shame because Iglesias is anundeniably genial presence as a performer and there are some strong bits hereand there, though not quite enough of them to win over anyone outside of hisfan club. Unlike alot of comedians working these days, Iglesias is not particularly aggressive orvulgar--at least not as seen here--and the material that he covers is notparticularly edgyor radical. He talksabout a trip to India and compares the similarities between that country andMexico. He does a bit about being in a bar and being so drunk that he doesn'trealize that a gay man is hitting on him. He talks about video games and howkids back in the day were forced to become mechanical experts in order to keepthem running in contrast to today's slick machines. A lot of time is dedicatedto discussing the faults of his stepson, especially his positions towardswearing deodorant and taking out the trash.Thanks tothe frequent cutaways to the audience members cracking up, it appears as thoughIglesias's live audience enjoyed the performance for the most part but whenseen from the distance provided by the transition from the stage to the screen,the cracks begin to show. Presumably due to the fact that he is playing in anarena, he never seems to establish the kind of rapport with his audience thatcan make a stand-up performance more than just someone telling one joke afteranother.As for the material, it often feels a little too pat and predictable for its own good—thekind of stuff that any comedian of any stripe could crank out without breakinga sweat (anyone hoping for commentary on the immigration conflict, to name oneespecially ripe example, will be sorely disappointed)—and at 101 minutes, there is a little too much ofit for its own good. One exceptionally expendable sequence is a prologue thatpurports to depict the circumstances surrounding his conception (involving hismother and a dashing mariachi band member) and his discovery of comedy (viarenting "     Eddie Murphy    : Raw") and which also feature cameos from TommyChong as a video store owner and     Ron White    as a cigar-chomping  obstetrician—the former presumably to honoranother one of Iglesias's inspirations and the latter to make viewers feelrelieved that Larry the Cable Guy wasn't available.Advertisement The twobest sequences in "The Fluffy Movie" come near the beginning andtoward the end. In the first, he talks in detail about his struggles to gethealthy in the wake of a diagnosis of Type 2 diabetes, and, in the second, hediscusses his unexpected reunion with his father after an absence of over 30years. In these bits, Iglesias seems more engaged than at other times, and theway that he tackles such potentially tricky and treacly material pays off inlaughs and in genuinely earned sentiment. If only the film had contained moremoments like this, it might have broken through the ranks and becomes somethingmore than a cable special writ large. Again, a film like "The Fluffy Movie" is essentiallyimmune to reviews—fans of Iglesias will flock to it (and should probably addan extra star to my review) while those who have never heard of him will barelyregister its existence as they flock to see "Lucy" and"Hercules." I can't say that I came out of the screening as a convertto his comedic cause but I must admit that there are some funny moments ondisplay that suggest that with stronger material and a tighter directorialhand, Iglesias could one day make a concert film that is worth going to see onthe big screen.