"And So It Goes" does what it needs to do for its targetaudience in thoroughly sufficient, mediocre ways. An unlikely romance betweenwidows in their 60s, it aims to charm older, underserved moviegoers—those whoget a "The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel" or some such only about once a year—but itdoes so with barely a trace of wit, verve or inspiration. It’s fine. It’s just not good. It’s also not "As Good As It Gets," even though both filmsshare the same screenwriter (Mark Andrus), misanthropic male protagonists andinterchangeably forgettable titles. AdvertisementRob Reineris firmly in late-career mode here, playing itsafe and hitting all the expected notes as he directs veteransMichael DouglasandDiane Keaton, who are nothing if not total pros as they try to breathe lifeinto such strained material. During the moments when "And So It Goes" isn’toverreaching for wacky laughs or going all gooey and soggy—when Douglas andKeaton’s characters have the opportunity to open themselves up to each other,quietly—Reiner’s film can be effective and even enjoyable. But those momentsare rare. More often, they’re bickering or awkwardly flirting as theyreach their inevitable destination of canned romantic bliss. Douglas, as longtime Connecticut real estate agent OrenLittle, is very much in the mode ofJack Nicholson’s curmudgeonly "As Good AsIt Gets" character, Melvin Udall. He’s turned cranky and cruel since his wife’sdeath from cancer a decade ago, unleashing his vitriol on children and theelderly, strangers and longtime colleagues alike. He’s a casually racist drunkand he hates dogs. Surely he is due for a change of heart. Keaton co-stars as Leah Hartman, Oren’s next-door neighborin the quaint, waterfront fourplex where he’s living while he tries to sell his$8.6 million mansion. Her husband also died a while ago; since then, she’stried to reinvent herself as a lounge singer and serves as the building’s defacto den mother. (Reiner stops the film for large portions of time to letKeaton warble classic tunes in a heartfelt whisper. It is very uncomfortable towatch.) Basically, she is every character Keaton has played for the past decadeor so: flighty and full of supposedly lovable tics and quirks. Surely, she willfacilitate Oren’s change of heart. Advertisement Actually, they change each other in speedy, implausibleways: He helps her toughen up, she helps him soften. Nothing here is a spoiler.The outcome is evident from the poster alone. Here’s what forces the feel-goodery: Oren’s estranged son(Scott Shepherd), a recovering heroin addict, shows up one day out of nowhereand announces he has a 9-year-old daughter (Sterling Jerins). He also needsOren to care for said daughter while he goes off to prison for the next ninemonths (for something he didn’t actually do, naturally). Do you think it’spossible that Oren and Leah will learn how to come together and function as amakeshift family for this shy, sweet little girl? Oren has a penchant for saying the wrong thing at the wrongtime—that is, until he promptly turns around and says the most perfect,poignant thing when it’s needed most. Similarly, in a moment that’s meant to bea sad goodbye, Oren will crack a terrible joke and ruin the mood. Reiner repeatedlymakes these jarring shifts in tone, but mostly is working in sitcom mode. Whenevera Rottweiler appears, for example, you know it’ll either a) take a dump on thelawn or b) hump a giant, stuffed teddy bear. Reiner himself actually appears in a small role as thesupportive, toupeed pianist who accompanies Leah as she performs at a localrestaurant. At one point while picking her up for a date, he accidentally stepsonto a Slip ‘N Slide, falls flat on his butt and gets soaked. It’s an aptmetaphor.