Compulsive filmmakerWoody Allenhas pretty much admittedthat his cinematic practice is such that each of his pictures is a swing atsomething. And that he’s the last to know, in a sense, the extent to which he“connects.” Which is not to say he has no opinions about his pictures—he does,and they’re usually ones related to disappointment—but rather that he keeps upthe pace that he does—making one film a year, like clockwork, since 1983—out ofa genuinely aspirational impulse. Critical opinion on the extent to which he connects variespretty wildly. I remember seeing Allen’s 2005 drama "Match Point" at the CannesFilm Festival and thinking it a lot of silly rot. So did another critic friend,and imagine our surprise as we filed out into the lobby of the screening areato mix with dozens, if not hundreds, of critics who found the picture athrilling return to form, or an Allen renaissance even. But the follow-up tothat, 2006’s "Scoop," was hardly anyone’s idea of primo Woody, and receptionwas wobbly from that point on, although the past four years have been, mostwould agree, pretty good artistic ones (although not so good with respect tocertain aspects of Allen’s personal life, one is obliged to note). 2011’s "Midnight In Paris" was considered by many a bonafide comedic masterwork andbecame a commercial hit; the more pro forma but not-without-its-innovations(and pleasures) 2012 "From Rome With Love" did more than coast on the good willgenerated by "Midnight;" and 2013’s "Blue Jasmine," derivative of TennesseeWilliams or not, garnered a Best Actress Oscar for its lead,Cate Blanchett. Advertisement While Allen’s new picture, "Magic In The Moonlight," isn’teven close to being a disaster (for that, see, well, "Scoop"), I don’t thinkit’s unreasonable to note that, in my estimation, it’s where Allen’s lateststreak…well, let’s not say “ends.” Let’s be moderate and say “ebbs.” Don’t getme wrong, much of "Magic In The Moonlight" is a pleasure to experience,particularly if you’re an aficionado of the sort of sophisticated,neurosis-laden romantic comedy that counts as one of Allen’s specialties. Themovie is a period piece, set in Europe in the late 1920s, which is also a boonas it frees Allen from trying to have to come up with credible dialogue forcontemporary characters in their 30s, something he’s more challenged to achieveas the years go on. The premise, too, is charming: celebrated stage magicianColin Firth, adyed-in-the-wool materialist, is enlisted by an old friend to sojourn to theSouth of France and debunk a young woman claiming to be a spiritualist, who atthe moment seems to have hoodwinked a rich American family, particularly itsmoony first-born son and heir. Once in the intoxicating atmosphere of not justthe playgrounds of the idle rich but that attending Sophie, the utterlydisarming communicator-with-the-afterworld, a young redhead played by EmmaStone, Firth’s Stanley softens. Upon discovering that he cannot, in fact, findany mechanical trickery or other sham stuff in her routine, the character, whoinitially proclaimed to all within earshot of spirituality, “There is no realthing; it’s all phony, from the séance table to the Vatican,” does a completeturnaround and declares himself a believer. A new sense of well-being infusesthe heretofore sour and cynical Stanley, and he is resoundingly grateful forit. Does this gratitude also translate into romantic feelings for her? Well, one knows the answer to that—sort of. Some admirers ofthis picture seem under the impression that writer/director Allen is showing anew depth of feeling in this picture; that Stanley’s conversion to a belief ina supreme being is a sign that the auteur himself is feeling reflective,mellow. I did not get that feeling at all—there are plenty of Woody Allenmovies in which rational characters succumb to Allen’s idea of irrationality.As the creator has not copped to some kind of spiritual epiphany himself, I didnot expect the one in this movie to last—it was just a matter of when, and how,the other shoe would drop. This is actually where the movie’s problems start;after Stanley gets turned around, partially in an observatory-set scene thatrecalls the Museum of Natural History sequence in Allen’s semi-classic "Manhattan," "Magic in the Moonlight" grows a little diffuse and floppy, almosthesitant to blossom into a romance. While slightly frustrating, the reticence wasalso momentarily encouraging—as an old person myself, I’m loathe to bring itup, but let’s face it, Colin Firth’s age is a little advanced for him to bepursuing the likes ofEmma Stone. What if the hemming and hawing in the secondhalf of "Magic" were to be an indicator that Allen was going to do somethingreallydifferent? Advertisement Suffice it to say that the movie falls back on a couple ofAllen standbys: the much-quoted “the heart wants what it wants” line from "Hannah And Her Sisters," and or that press conference where Allen explainedthe whole Soon-Yi business, and the “Yeah, but we need the eggs” joke withwhich Allen closes "Annie Hall." The only big news here is Colin Firth’sstrong, unfussy performance, a straightforward delight that only gets better duringhis scenes withEileen Atkins, who plays Stanley’s predictably wise aunt. Stoneis breezy and free of contemporary affect;Hamish Linklater, as her moonysuitor, is fine but appears to be in it for the company rather than the actualrole (which also seemed to be the case with his appearance in the thankless "The Angriest Man In Brooklyn" oppositeRobin Williams). And I don’t know whyAllen enlisted the Australian actressJacki Weaver, playing the mater of therich American clan, to essay a Sally Struthers impersonation when Ms. Struthersherself is alive and as far as I know available. That’s showbiz these days Iguess.