In Greekmythology, Heracles was the product of Zeus getting his Mt. Olympus freak on with a mortal woman. Heracles wasnamed to honor his philandering daddy’s angry wife, Hera, but her vengeance haddire consequences for the future hero. Hera drove him insane, at which pointHeracles murdered his wife and children. After regaining his sanity andrealizing the horrible nature of his crime, Heracles accepts as penance thefamous labors most of us know about from high school English class. Theseincluded defeating the Nemean Lion, the hydra and the Erymanthian boar. Advertisement This was thelegend I expected fromBrett Ratner’s “Hercules.” Instead, I and the 12 otherpeople who showed up for last night’s screening were treated to yet anothercomic book adaptation by studios desperate to hang on to its stereotypical coremarket of men in states of arrested development. I know nothing about the RadicalComics series upon which this is based, but I sincerely hope it is not the half-assed,warmed over “300” rip-off its cinematic counterpart is. Watching “Hercules,”you can feel your intelligence being insulted in almost every frame. Shorn of thegraphic violence and blatant homoeroticism that made “300” gore-soaked camp,the PG-13 rated “Hercules” is left with poorly rendered CGI battles and a fearof any semblance of darkness. There’s also the potentially interesting idea ofhow one man’s legend can shape the minds and actions of many, but “Hercules” isafraid of that too. For all its violence, “Hercules” coddles you, protectingyou from any kind of complex or sad emotion the material might inspire. It’s soafraid of upsetting you that it can’t even give its most interesting characterthe noble death it so beautifully sets up for him. Even the character is pissedoff about this. Ratnerdispatches with the labors in the pre-credits sequence of the film, turningthem into a story told by Hercules’ nephew Iolaus (Reece Ritchie). Iolaus isbeing held hostage by a band of pirates who suspend him over a long, jaggedspear of rock aimed at his nether regions. “Hercules” posits that the legendsof its titular hero have the power of scaring men into submission, but thesepirates temporarily prove the exception. “That’s bulls—t,” one of the piratesexclaims after hearing of the Nemean lion. Advertisement Of course, Hercules(Dwayne Johnson) makes his entrance wrapped in the lion’s hide. Ratner shootsthis as if Johnson were on the runway of a fashion show atErnest Hemingway’shouse. Clad in fur and covered in smoke, Hercules announces his new role asmercenary for anyone willing to pay his price. He is joined by a crew of people including Amphiarausthe Oracle (Ian McShane) and an Amazonian archer (Ingrid Bolsø Berdal) whoshould have “Katniss Everdeen” tattooed across her beautiful forehead. Afterdispatching the pirates and saving his nephew from a stalagmite-like enema,Hercules’ next job for hire is at the behest of Lord Cotys (John Hurt, puttinga much hammier spin on his "Snowpiercer" character). Cotys wants to stop theterrible reign of Rhesus (Tobias Santelmann), a leader who supposedly possessesotherworldly powers of persuasion and an animal-like appearance that, in a caseof missed opportunity, is not that of a monkey. Hercules complains that Cotys’army is far too untalented to face Rhesus, but a payment worth twice Hercules’weight in gold changes Hercules’ mind. Cue numerous scenes ofThe RockasHercules as General Patton, speechifying and pacing before leading his haplessmotley  crew of an army into war. Mythologicalheroes have undergone numerous changes throughout history, so there’s barely ashred of justification in complaining about how far away a story strays fromits most well-known incarnation. However, I must grasp that shred to illustratemy point about how depressingly infantile “Hercules” is. Out of nowhere, Ratnerand his editors suddenly insert bloody images of children and women being murdered.This flashback is so poorly edited that it’s never clear what’s happening,though it ends with a direct rip-off of Kubrick’s "The Shining." Advertisement Since “Hercules”had strayed so far from the legend, I was surprised the film would include Hera’shorrific revenge on Hercules’ family. These images torture Hercules wheneverthey appear, threatening to give the character some complexity. To Johnson’scredit, he attempts to play these moments in agonized fashion—he believes hehas murdered his family. It’s all fornaught: ScreenwritersRyan CondalandEvan Spiliotopouloswork out an absurd loophole of absolution, pinningthe murders on a three-headed dog instead of Hercules. The three-headed dog alsoturns out to be a hallucination; it’s actually three separate dogs. Respondingto this development, the guy behind me at the theater let out a fierce snore. Ienvied him. Like ArnoldSchwarzenegger before him, Dwayne Johnson was born to play Hercules. LikeAh-nuld, he’s muscular and not without an onscreen chemistry that’s at timesperfectly mythological. And Johnson is a welcome change from the Nordic ideal mythicalmovies usually employ. It’s too bad that Hercules comes off as a supportingcharacter in his own story. The armies do most of the fighting, and when there’squiet, Johnson has to share the screen with his team. The movie is stolen byMcShane’s oracle, who is the recipient of the aforementioned noble near-death scene,and Tydeus (Aksel Hennie), a warrior so scarred by violence that he is moreanimal than human. Tydeus’ backstory, which “Hercules” only hints at, is farmore interesting than anything we’re following in the present. The CGI isabsolute garbage, andDante Spinotti’s cinematography is depicted as a muddymess through the 3D glasses. Yet, there’s one moment that not only proves howlittle the filmmakers gave a damn but also saves this film from the no-starreview it truly deserves. One of the villains is hit by the gigantic head of astatue of Hera that crumbles when Hercules pulls it down. The camera gives us agreat look at the impact which, had physics been consulted, would have resultedin a juicy, delicious splatter. Instead, the villain not only remains intactafter impact, he also rides the head off a cliff into oblivion. I laughed sohard I woke up the guy behind me. He was not happy. Advertisement