There’s minimalist filmmaking that’s quietly intriguing, andthen there’s emotional detachment that’s stultifying to the point of being nap-inducing. "War Story" falls into the latter category. DirectorMark Jackson’s drama is a chilly study in griefstarringCatherine Keeneras a war-zone photographer shattered by herexperiences in Libya. But Jackson and co-writerKristin Gorehave structured thefilm as a mystery, so we don’t really know who Keener’s character is or whathappened to her until about an hour into the 90-minute running time. Advertisement Instead, Keener’s Lee smokes and sulks. She pops pills andavoids calls from her editor. She holes up in the darkness of a sparse Sicilianhotel room that she insists the maid shouldn’t clean. (Actually, all of herinteractions with other people are uniformly terse.) When she does leave theroom, bleary-eyed, Jackson follows her in long, Dardennes-style tracking shotsdown bland hotel hallways and through cloudy city streets. There is a numbingevenness in tone to every place she goes and everything she does. Certainly, a film about a woman suffering frompost-traumatic stress disorder shouldn’t be a laugh riot, but it should atleast offer some glimmers of humanity to engage us and keep us hanging on. “WarStory” is all about withholding key information, but it’s too languid to beengrossing in the first place. It takes an awfully long time to establish Lee’sisolation; the first 13 minutes are essentially wordless. All kinds of choices are baffling here, beginning with theplacement of Keener in this kind of role. So much of what has made her soappealing for so long—especially in her work withSpike Jonzeand NicoleHolofcener—is a zesty naturalism, a directness and an earthiness that allowher to make an instant connection, regardless of the character. All of that hasbeen stripped away here, and what’s left is a dour shell. But Lee thinks she may have found her salvation when shemeets Hafsia (Hafsia Herzi), a troubled, young refugee in need of an abortion.Hafsia happens to resemble a young woman in Libya whom she photographedmourning over the body of her slain brother. In this doppelganger, Lee sees anopportunity for spiritual redemption —or perhaps just a distraction from herown troubles. Their relationship is vague as is so much else in the film, buteventually it seems to border on co-dependency, with the two women hidingtogether in the hotel room and even sharing the same bed, platonically. Eventhe introduction of Hafsia doesn’t liven things up; she’s as low-key andenigmatic as Lee is. Advertisement A meeting with a longtime friend and colleague finally shedssome light on Lee’s plight. He’s played by a barely-thereBen Kingsleyin amassive waste of a towering talent. Speaking of baffling decisions, Kingsley isbasically on screen for about five minutes, and when we first see him meetingup with Keener, it’s from a distance at a high angle. Their discussion takesplace in a dark room in one long, extremely backlit take. This is supposed to be one of the most significant momentsin the film but because of these aesthetic choices, it just doesn’t register. Kingsley’ssingle scene makes you long for more of him; he’s a forceful presence in a filmdesperately in need of them. Perhaps Jackson is trying to recreate for us as viewers thefoggy, drug-induced state in which Lee has placed herself as a means ofprotection or denial or self-soothing. It’s hard to figure it out, as is theintentionally abrupt, open-ended conclusion which feels like a slap in the faceafter enduring such a slog.