Is it possible the sequels to “Cabin Fever” and “Hostel”exist mostly to make the first films look better in comparison? Before horrornuts get defensive, I actually have some admiration forEli Roth’s brand ofvisceral horror but the sequels to his films have been remarkablyhorrendous enough to engender conspiracy theories. "You thoughtthatwas bad? Get a load of this." “Cabin Fever 2” was reportedly taken out of the hands ofTi Westand the result was a Frankenmovie without much personality or reason toremember it. While that may have been forgettable, the same can’t be said about“Hostel III,” a truly awful horror film with nary a redeeming value. Whichbrings us to “Cabin Fever: Patient Zero,” a film hitting theaters today andalso available On Demand that promises to be a prequel to the first Roth film.And they are reportedly making another prequel too. How much do we have to praise Roth’soriginal films to make this stop? Advertisement The first act of “Cabin Fever: Patient Zero” is so defiantlystupid that I imagine most who rent it or struggle through it in a theater won’tcare that there’s actually some material in the final act that clicks, mostlydue to some incredibly strong makeup work. Yes, horror fans, this is one of thosemovies in which we praise the makeup instead of the plotting, characters, orscares. Still, in an era of CGI overload, it’s nice to see a bit of practicalwork in a low-budget sequel that impresses and some of the viscera and meltingbody parts when the shit (and everything else in the human body) hits the fan inthe final act of “Patient Zero” is impressively executed. It’s just a shamethat it’s in service of a movie that doesn’t deserve it. At first, “Patient Zero” appears to be telling two stories,distinguished by strikingly different visual palettes. In one, Porter (SeanAstin) is taken prisoner by a group of doctors after he watches his son meltaway in his arms from some unknown disease. Porter didn’t die. He’s the key tothe cure. And so they trap him, keep him from civilization, and kind of torturehim for reasons that are unclear other than there needs to be tension in thishalf of the movie. There certainly isn’t any in the other half, which featurescharacters and a plot that feels produced by a computer programmed with aHorror Cliché Generator. A group of guys on a bachelor party weekend head off towhat is essentially a deserted island. One of the more annoying dudes and his gal-pal who hastagged along go snorkeling and see that all the fish look like they’ve gone throughan oceanic blender. And then they start to form bumps, lesions and other thingsthat we know will end in nastiness. I don’t demand an inordinate amount of realism from myset-up acts for horror films but there is a line of what we should be willing to accept. These aren’t characters. Theyaren’t people. They barely even register as pawns to be fed to the horrormachine. Most red shirts have more personality. Worst of all, “Cabin Fever: Patient Zero” is a film withoutenough surprises. The very final 15-20 minutes have a bit of B-movie lunacy to keepthis from the worst of the year (and that make it more inherently interesting than“Hostel III”) but everything that happens before that feels like it’s goingthrough the motions. We know what’s going to happen before it happens and predictabilityis anti-horror. When the pretty girl gets the plague, we know that her bro of abeau is going to try to have sex with her anyway and, well, we know how thatwill go. Call it a callback or homage to the first film if you want or justcall it lazy. Better yet, don’t call it anything at all. Just don’t see it. Advertisement