Maybe it’s me. The older I get, the more I grapple with myown personal deficits of maturity and resourcefulness, the less patience I havefor fictional stories (non-fictional stories too, come to think of it) offellow white males who don’t want to grow up. Even if they’re Norwegian. Henrik Rafaelson’s Henrik, the hero and I suppose titlecharacter of this feature written and directed byMartin Lund, is experiencinga not-quite mid-life crisis on account of his girlfriend’s pregnancy, and a newjob. As lifestyle gurus both here and across the International Date line willtell you, those are two really major-league stress-precipitating life changes,and I suppose Lund could have gotten himself a longer movie (this one clocks inat an admittedly tidy 75 minutes) had he thrown a geographic move into the mix.In any event, after a couple of scenes establishing the free-and-fun-filledrelationship Henrik enjoys with future mother-of-his-child Tone (Janne HeltbergHaarseth), including a goofy improvised fake fight in a supermarket, the betterto freak out the uptight folks who normally populate the aisles, Henrik’sbehavior gets erratic in less ingratiating ways. Advertisement The refusal of adulthood’s onus is most vehemently expressedin the physical execution of a metaphor: a scene in which Henrik urinates intoa children’s picture book based on Disney’s version of “Peter Pan.” There’sactually a fair amount of bodily-function acting out here, none of it invokingFreud so much as playing like a lower-key iteration of an American indiegross-out comedy. Indeed, it didn’t take ten minutes of the movie before Iimagined one could create an American remake withMark Duplassin the role ofHenrik. Since I find Rafaelson a more congenial screen presence than Duplass,the advantage is with the Norwegians, but only slightly. As it happens, whilethe acting and the cinematography are both solid, the movie is both weirdlyindulgent (Henrik’s masturbatory compulsiveness, whatever the motivations forit, simply is not that interesting) and peculiarly aimless, especially givenits length. My problem, finally, and this is something I rarely actually complainabout, was that I didn’t care. Watching Henrik, my weather was along the linesof “I’ve got my own problems, European Person, and you’re not even distractingme from them. Get your whatever-it-is together.” And as I remained unmoved, Istarted longing for a relationship comedy/drama with some real bite andobservation to it, and fondly remembering the 2009 German film "Everyone Else,"directed by Maren Ade. Who’s a woman, as it happens. Maybe I’m just sick ofbros.