Taking place almost entirely within the claustrophobic confines of a  middle-class Berlin apartment, Ramon Zurcher's debut film, "The Strange  Little Cat," features a curious and alert tabby, busy scratching on  doors, batting its paws at a fluttering moth, staring out the window,  its tail flicking, or strolling about on the kitchen table. The cat is  not strange. But the film sure is, strange and creepy and entertaining.  It's like reading a short story by Chekhov or Ionesco, that was  translated by Kafka (the film is very very loosely based on  "Metamorphosis"), and then staged by Bertolt Brecht. Or Barnum &  Bailey. The cat isn't an observer. It is a participant in the circle of  family life, wrapped up in its own concerns, wanting what it wants,  strolling in and out of the frame as it pleases. Up above its head, or  off to the side, the droning mundane family conversations go on and on.  In "The Strange Little Cat," the mundane may very well be the strangest  subject of all. Advertisement From the very first shot, we are clued in that there are depths of  strangeness to be plumbed in even the smallest and most banal  interactions. A little girl (Mia Kasalo) sits at a kitchen table,  writing something on a pad of paper, and occasionally opening her mouth  to scream at the top of her lungs, timing her screams to the roar of the  blender (off-camera). Grown-ups pass around her, their heads above the  frame, their conversations droning and banal, not acknowledging her.  What we are seeing is a regular family morning, but the framing from  cinematographer Alexander Hasskerl creates an enormous amount of  tension. That tension lasts throughout the film, a strength of its  relatively short running time. There is a Mother (Jenny Schily), who busies herself with food  preparation, her back to the camera. The framing, again, creates tension  in what is a normal everyday moment, a mother cutting fruit on the  counter. But the fact that her back is turned, so often, begins to seem  ominous. When she turns to look at her family gathering in the kitchen,  there is an intense remote quality to her face which can be quite  frightening, but you're never sure if you're projecting or not. Is she  about to fly the coop? There's a disturbing moment where she looks down  at the cat, eating at its food bowl, and she hovers her foot just above  the cat's head, as though she is contemplating crushing it. As the family gathers—sons, daughters, their significant others, a sick  grandmother, a couple of uncles—they chat with one another, crowding  through the kitchen. Someone will start speaking, sharing an event that  took place over the last couple of days. The mother shares a story about  going to the movies, and how the man next to her in the theatre placed  his foot on top of her foot and she wasn't sure how to move her foot  away. One of the older daughters shares a story about how she was  walking in the park, throwing down slices of orange rind, and how  strange it was that the orange part of the rind always landed face-down.  These stories are related in a flat-affect tone, which makes the  proceedings feel like an avant-garde theatre piece, with individual  actors stepping downstage and addressing the audience directly. In some  cases, the events described are shown in dreamy flashback. Advertisement All of this is quite haunting and hypnotic. The stories shared seem to  have, at their crux, the feeling that the world is a completely  mysterious place, where people and objects often behave in baffling  ways. The monologues continue, and people stroll in and out of the kitchen,  down the dark hallway, and back, and the apartment begins to take on a  life of its own. Objects start to rebel against the functions they were  meant for. Buttons fall off of people's shirts. Drinks spill. The  radiator has a weird echo. The washing machine is broken. A glass bottle  spins on the stove. A ball flies in through the kitchen window, thrown  from the courtyard below, an alarming moment when the belljar of the  family dynamic is shattered by an interloper. At the family dinner later  in the film, one of the fat sausages on the table squirts grease wildly  when someone cuts into it, causing hilarity. The refusal of objects to  behave appropriately and do what they were meant to do is reminiscent of  Jacques Tati's use of that trope repeatedly, to great comedic effect,  in "Playtime," where a neon sign in a drugstore suddenly becomes a halo,  due to the placement of the priest below it, or fat leather chairs make  embarrassing fart-sighs when people sit down on them. There is a young son in the family, a little deadpan boy, who stands and  stares at the cat scratching at a door, or at the family dog who is  busy keeping his eye on the family cat, and the little boy says,  vaguely, to a nearby grownup, "Is the cat/dog supposed to be doing  that?" He never gets an answer. He seems to be the only one in the  family who is aware that the objects around them are in out-and-out  rebellion. Perhaps as a way to acknowledge that unspoken reality, he  flies a little automated helicopter into the crowded kitchen, where it  floats around through the grown-ups before crashing into a nearby fruit  bowl. Nobody notices. There is tension here between different family members. The little girl  is slapped across the face at one point by the Mother. Mother criticizes  the sounds her older daughter makes when she drinks her juice. But the  tension really comes from the get-go, from the static strange framing,  and the palpable sense that Zurcher and his cinematographer give that  something is not quite right here.The source of the tension remains  buried, which gives "The Strange Little Cat" a Harold Pinter-type  energy. Pinter wrote pauses into his scripts, pauses that actors  are encouraged to follow as though they are rests in a musical score.  The pauses add to the ominous sense that something is coming; something  gigantic is happening beneath the placid surface. It doesn't matter that  the characters are talking about washing machines and orange peels.  Something is going ON. The revelation may be that "all" that is going on  is the normal stresses of everyday family life, filmed in a way that  highlights the airless intimacy and the devotion-to-the-banal nature of  all of it; the ways we talk around each other, above each other; the way  we repeatedly "miss" each other, especially when we are in such close  quarters.AdvertisementThe only music in the film ("Pulchritude" by Thee More Shallows) is used  sparingly and specifically, and it usually marks the entrance of the  cat into the action, after a room has cleared. The music seems to act as  a cue: the humans have left the room, the cat can breathe more freely  now.People do behave in strange ways. Objects do rebel. We do live alongside  animals who have intentions and concerns of their own. Who can figure  it all out? "The Strange Little Cat" doesn't provide answers, and  doesn't reveal its underlying structure or mythology. The mystery is  almost total. That's the fun of it.