What a grim experience. Mainly incompetent, "Behaving Badly," directed byTim Garrick(he also  co-wrote the screenplay withScott Russell, adapting it from a book)  tries to maintain an ironic and cynical tone, hoping that irony and  cynicism will automatically translate into "comedy." It doesn't. What  ends up happening is that the so-called irony tips over into Tucker  Max-esque nihilism from almost the first moment of the film, which could  certainly be funny in some cases but isn't here. The proceedings are  then complicated further with half-assed spiritual considerations that  are barely taken seriously by the film-makers and yet clearly are meant  to be taken very seriously by the characters, as well as a sweet and  shmoopy romance that doesn't work at all in the craven environment set  up in the film. I found myself grasping at straws, a desperate woman, as  I watched: The principal (Patrick Warburton) was doing some funny  character work. AndSelena Gomezis adorable and manages to float away  unscathed. But other than that, it's an unfunny comedy, populated by  irredeemable sociopaths. Advertisement Rick Stevens (even his name sounds fake) is played byNat Wolff, who was  so troubled and interesting in "Palo Alto," and he plays a similar  character here. Rick, like Ferris Bueller, talks directly into the  camera and narrates his own life, although without Ferris' charm or  humor. His face shows no expression as he tells us all of the horrible  things that have been happening: his mother attempting suicide, a dead  body found in his trunk, etc. The film opens with a shot of his bulging  crotch, and his deadpan voice telling us that, on top of everything else,  he has crabs. Things go downhill from there. Rick's mother (Mary Louise Parker) is a falling-down drunk who goes to  rehab every April, bottle of vodka stashed in her purse. Rick's older  sister Kristen (Ashley Rickards) is a stripper who is applying to  Stanford. Rick's father (Cary Elwes) is out of the picture, except when  he shows up begging to borrow Rick's video camera for nefarious  purposes. Rick, clearly, has some strikes against him in the DNA  department. He is secretly in love with a girl named Nina Pennington (Selena Gomez),  who is so pure that she wants to be a priest when she grows up, and  spends her free time volunteering. Rick pays strippers for awkward  blow-jobs, and then brags about it, and also makes a bet with a kid at  school that he can somehow bang Nina.At the same time as all of this is going on, Rick is also busy losing  his virginity to his best friend's mother, Mrs. Bender (poor Elisabeth  Shue, whom I wanted to airlift out of her own scenes to safety). Mrs.  Bender comes on to Rick the second her son leaves the room, and Rick  stammers, "Are you trying to seduce me, Mrs. Bender?" "     The Graduate    " did  it better.The set direction is painfully generic, the houses looking uninhabited  by real people, and decorated by those who are interested in renting  their homes out to porn directors.Advertisement"Behaving Badly" wants to have it both ways. It wants to be a gross-out  comedy, with bodily functions spewing forth in almost every scene, and  naked girls, and kids behaving badly, and debauchery, and horrible  parents, and oh, how funny and gross it is when women over a certain age  still want sex. But then it also wants to have a serious sweet side,  where our hero contemplates what God wants him to do, and where he gets  to have an innocent pay-off kiss with the saintly girl of his dreams.  There are other films that do manage to have it both ways, but "Behaving  Badly" isn't one of them.The view of women is appalling in "Behaving Badly," which I suppose  shouldn't be a surprise, but it's disheartening nonetheless. Women are  either pure, and therefore valuable and worthy of respect (when they're  not being plotted and schemed over, that is), or they are sexually  active, and therefore monstrous and diseased. Good times. In one of the  scenes involving a stripper, the stripper whips her shirt off, exposing  her breasts, and Rick the narrator drones to us, "I know this is bad,  but..." and then the scene rewinds again and again and again to show her  taking her shirt off, three times in a row.Yes, "this is bad." You said it, not me.