Kim Ki-Duk’s “Moebius,” the follow-up to his GoldenLion-winning “Pieta,” takes many of the bizarre, incestuous beats of that dramaand twists, contorts and morphs them into black comedy. Although many who readeven the comparatively tame plot description that comes shortly in this reviewwill probably doubt the comedic undertones of the latest from the controversialKorean director. Trust me. Kim uses provocation through extreme imagery tosatirical ends. He wants you to squirm, be uncomfortable, and even laugh at theinsanity of what’s happening on the screen. And, again, trust me, the word insanity is not anexaggeration in this case. Advertisement “Moebius” is a three-actor, four-character piece that playslike Greek tragedy filtered through the lens of extreme filmmakers like TakashiMiike. As soon as one thinks that Kim has pushed the envelope narratively andvisually, he has something else disturbing up his bloody sleeve. The threeentirely committed, fearless performers put through the physical and emotionalmotions by Kim carry a film that is the definition of “not for everyone” but “Moebius”works on its terms. Its twisted, Oedipal, sadomasochistic, castrated terms. A man (Jae-hyeon Jo) is having an affair. A mother (Eun-wooLee, who also plays the mistress) knows about the affair and she’s cracking inevery possible way. She confronts her husband and attempts to castrate him. Shefails. So she castrates her son (Young-ju Seo) and flees the home. The fatherfeels such grief over his son’s castration for his own sins that he becomesobsessed with trying to find ways for the young man to achieve sexual release.His journey into the kind of Google searches that the authorities sometimestrack results in the discovery that some people get off by rubbing stones ontheir skin until they bleed while others who have been castrated have foundrelease by having knives shoved in their back and twisted around. Did Imention that dad's mistress becomes the object of sexual obsession of the son?Careful readers will note that the mistress and mother being played by the samewoman is not thematically coincidental. And then dear old crazy mom comes homeand things get REALLY weird. Did I mention all of this is conveyed without a single lineof dialogue? Kim’s film is not a silent one a la “The Artist” but a film inwhich the characters simply never speak. Oh, they make a variety of othernoises, most of them guttural. It almost feels like Kim was trying to see howmuch human suffering a filmmaker could convey without the crutch of dialogue todo so. And so we hear groans, moans, cries, and every other sound one canimagine that doesn’t include actual pronunciation. The decision to craft “Moebius” as a dialogue-free piece hasa dual impact. First, it heightens viewer involvement as we have to leanforward, concentrate heavily on the blocking and staging to follow a story thathas no subtitles or other traditional sign markers. Second, it creates anexaggerated world like a theatrical piece that chooses movement orinterpretative dance, for example, to convey its themes instead of narrative.And that element adds to the black comedy aspect of “Moebius”—this is inherentlyridiculous but it’s made more so by no one commenting in any way throughdialogue on that ridiculousness. Advertisement To say the performers in “Moebius” are fearless, especiallyEun-woo Lee, would be understating it significantly. Kim asks an amazingphysical and emotional freedom of his actors and they all deliver. We can sitback and appreciate Kim’s daring work as a commentary on the way modern societydeals with sexuality, infidelity and insanity but one shouldn’t ignore the verypractical nature of what’s happening onscreen in some of the darker moments you’llsee in a cinema this year. Kim, like a lot of great shock artists, creates awork so intentionally button-pushing and maniacally over-the-top that itdemands your attention. He may be one of the international cinema scene's mostdivisive filmmakers but no one can argue that he’s going through the motions orfailing to explore the function of his demented form.