You'vegot to admireJames Franco's chutzpah. After directing a few vacant things thatbarely count as movies, he just started going around buying the rights toclassics like he wasWilliam WylerorJohn Huston. After "As I Lay Dying," last year’s fascinating, if perhaps undercookedFaulkner adaptation, Franco has returned with a stab atCormac McCarthy’s earlynovel "Child of God."People who were worried when Franco snappedup the option to "Blood Meridian," McCarthy’s‘unfilmable’ masterpiece, won’t have their fears allayed any by a good faithbut blank retelling of McCarthy’s first major statement. Franco clearly wantsto be a provocative artist with the chops to bring major literature to life,but he has no relationship with the camera. Every cut has the same effect asthe curtain raising on the next act of a play: here’s some more action, forbetter or worse. It’s like "     Dogville    "with the sets filled in; watchably eccentric but rudderless.Advertisement ScottHaze makes a hell of a showing for himself as Lester Ballard, a half-mad,backwoods degenerate with no place in polite society. "Child of God" starts with Ballard losing every piece of property heowns except his rifle and retreating into the woods. He squats in a vacantshack, finds the body of a dead girl, brings her back to the shed and thenstarts courting her. Things somehow get worse from there. Before long a posse(led by Franco, in a small, unmemorable role) are chasing him into the hillslooking for some form of closure after his twisted reign of terror. Oh, there’salso a mostly useless, though incredibly entertaining sidebar featuring thealways-welcome TimBlake Nelsonas the sheriff andJim Parrackas his deputy.They don’t do much of anything but their no-bullshit chemistry works likegangbusters and Franco was smart to focus as much time on them as he does, evenif it meant losing some of the book’s better passages. They’re like a KentuckyFried Statler and Waldorf, and they’re a welcome respite from Haze’s literalgo-for-broke turn, even if they don’t do much more than arrest him a few times. It’sa curious thing. What impulse leads most directors to seek out great books andturn them into films? Presumably the writer has conjured up a set of events socompelling in a totally unique milieu and he or she wants to see it brought tolife. James Franco isn’t like most directors. After publishing a few books,going to a couple of expensive grad schools and turning up in an adaptation ofa few of his short stories, it’s clear that Franco’s approach to movies is aboutrespect for the word above all else. "As I Lay Dying" frequently stopped itsnot-terribly urgent narrative so that characters could stare into the cameraand read passages of the book aloud. Its one cinematic device, frequentsplit-screen, was apparently chosen to fit more of Faulkner’s prose into itsnearly two hour runtime. "Child of God"has no interest in breaking the fourth wall but sure does plenty of staring.CinematographerChristina Voros’ handheld camera tries to keep up with our‘hero’ as he defiles a body, foams at the mouth, cries like an infant over hislosses, defecates in the woods, and does himself and others repeated harm.Franco gracelessly follows Haze from one sordid misadventure to the next withno feeling for why McCarthy made all these decisions the first time around.It’s a great ad for the book because what’s missing from the film’s conceptionof the characters is all on the page. And despite a…well, one hesitates to usethe term ‘star-making’ about a performance so deliberately hideous andgrotesque, but a grippingly insane performance from the badger-like Haze,there’s just too much silence where their ought to be prose. Whichisn’t to say the film is without merit. It is utterly fascinating to seeclassic literature re-enacted as if it were theatre, and it takes courage tograb up something as iconic in its darkness as "Child of God" and just play it straight. It’s as if Haze decided toput on the most perverse one-man show imaginable and Franco was there to catchit all. This isn’t the best way to get at the beauty of an author’s worldview(even one as flamboyantly scabrous as McCarthy’s) as it’s got no poetry of itsown but it’s evidence of respect. Franco has been doing whatever the hell he’sfelt like for the last few years and it’d be easy to coast on meatlesssupporting roles in the indies that come his way, but when you consider that hecould beZach Braffand do exactly what people expect him to, Franco starts tolook a lot more fearless. He may just be the coolest kid in class trying toencourage everyone to pay attention to the English teacher, but there’ssomething noble in that. The day he figures out what to do with his camera,he’s going to graduate to artist and we may have a properly excellent directoron our hands. Advertisement