Recent movies includingTerrence Malick’s “The Tree of Life”andRichard Linklater’s “Boyhood” have drawn praise for the combination ofpoetry and realism in their depiction of young males growing up in small-townenvironments. Such films now have an extraordinary nonfiction equal in “RichHill,” a powerful, engrossing look at the lives of three teenage boys coming ofage in the eponymous Missouri town of the title, population 1,393. Produced and directed by first cousinsTracy Droz TragosandAndrew Droz Palermo, the film joins a long line of cinema verite explorationsof American families. Yet the focus here is on families whose low place on thesocioeconomic ladder entails problems—addiction, domestic violence, childabuse, prison—that many more fortunate Americans, including the presumedaudience for most documentaries, seldom have to face. Advertisement Though that may make “Rich Hill” sound like an “issuesfilm,” it is anything but. Or rather, while there are many issues into which the filmoffers abundant insight, including poverty and the all but inescapabletrap it becomes for many families, it is also about so many other things,including the rituals and rhythms of small-town life and the complexities ofindividual personalities. It emerges as an artistic statement asmulti-faceted, nuanced and hauntingly original as any of its fictionalcounterparts. One of the first things that deserve to be noted about “RichHill”—and that may make it controversial in some quarters—is its beauty.Any description of the film that only describes its people and events wouldlargely miss what it feels like to experience it. From its first moments, whenseveral jump-cut shots of a teenage boy getting ready for school give way tolyrical views of Rich Hill as it comes to life in the morning, the combinationof editing rhythms,Nathan Halpern’s music and Palermo’s strikingly luminousimages conjure a world that seems to pulse with its own inner warmth andradiance. Yet any charge that this approach inappropriately prettifiesa bleak social landscape would be entirely misplaced. The filmmakers are bothnative Missourians (Dragos’ father was from Rich Hill and she spent summersthere), and the film’s stylistic tone first of all reflects their feelingsabout a native landscape and communities they know first hand. And, rather thansimply being a surface value, it helps establish an empathy that invites us tosee not only the hardship but the beauty in lives that are buffeted bydifficulty from many directions. Advertisement For if adolescence is inherently a time of difficulties, thethree boys at the center of “Rich Hill” have more than their share. Harley,who’s 15 and wears a black t-shirt labeled “Horror Movie,” lives with hisgrandmother since his mom, a waitress, is in prison for assaulting his step-dad(because, the boy says, the man raped him). An avid collector of knives,Harley’s on medication for numerous conditions and constantly seems near a flashpoint of rage, which partly explains his trouble in school. Yet he also has anirrepressible sense of humor that seems to counteract his anger. Appachey, 13 years old and also on medication for variousdisorders, lives in the most disorderly home, a trash-cluttered house where hisobese single mother rides herd over a swarm of kids. He recalls, “My dad leftwhen I was six, just walked out.” Bright but troubled and prone to outbursts,he’s obliged to repeat sixth grade and has other problems at school that seemto point toward the juvenile detention system. His hard-nosed mom says shecan’t control him and he’ll have to decide to get help himself. Fourteen-year-old Andrew, meanwhile, differs from the othertwo boys in notable ways. Strikingly good-looking and sweet-natured (his mothercalls him her angel), he has a stable, loving family, takes no meds and seemsto like school. But his family’s poverty makes for a highly unstable existence.While his mother’s housebound due to illness, his dad is one of thosearchetypal luckless dreamers who schemes of making money as a singer, inventoror prospector but meanwhile works odd jobs that don’t end up making ends meet.Unable to pay rent, his family moves and moves again, and late in the film endsup bunking with cousins who themselves are in hard straits. Advertisement Brilliantly edited by Jim Hession, the film deftlyinterweaves the three families’ stories as they unfold over many months (thethree boys never cross paths). By all indications, the filmmakers achieved aremarkable degree of trust and closeness with their subjects, because thefilm’s intimacy feels entirely natural and unforced. And beyond the individualsand their families, “Rich Hill” captures a sense of life in contemporary smalltowns that’s textured and evocative enough to recall the fictions ofThornton WilderandSherwood Anderson. This is especially true when it comes to community eventslike fairs and football games. And at the town’s annual Fourth of Julycelebrations, the thematic motif of luminescence in Palermo’s filming reaches avisual crescendo. It’s as if all the lights in the lives of this communityunite in an outward explosion of joy, affirmation and hope. Yet such exultation is, of course, only one part of a muchmore complex and often disturbing picture. The most salient virtue of “RichHill” is how carefully phrased its sympathetic portrayals of its maincharacters are. We cannot help but be drawn to all three boys and moved bytheir struggles and their families’ travails. Yet this leaves us in aparadoxical position. On the one hand, we can see the pluck and resilience ofHarley, Apachee and Andrew to the extent of imagining that these qualities andtheir individual talents might rescue them from bad later lives. Yet, coming ata time when the dire effects of America’s economic inequality are more and morein the news, we’re given potent reminders of how limited and bleak the chancesof such kids usually are. Some viewers might prefer a film that embraces only one sideof that paradox, just as others might prefer a movie about poor people to offeronly unrelieved grimness, not beauty. But “Rich Hill” asks us to think aboutcomplex issues in a way that avoids simplicities and clichés, and that helpsmake it a documentary to rank alongside such classics about indigence andfamily as “Grey Gardens” and “Hoop Dreams.”