The opening scene of theJames Brownbiopic “GetOn Up” plays like a badDave Chappelleskit. Please beg my indulgence as Idescribe it. A woman is shown sitting onthe toilet, her biological activities intercut with a drugged-out James Browndriving to an office building he owns. Dressed in a hideous green track suit, Brown(Chadwick Boseman) enters the building and discovers that someone has, in hiswords, “taken a s—t in mah bathroom!” This revolting development sends Brownback to his truck to retrieve a shotgun. Returning to the office, Brownthreatens a group of White people, ranting and raving about the bodily functionthat will prominently and literally feature in any future discussions on theauteurism of directorTate Taylor. Advertisement “How wouldyou like it if you came home and found James Brown takin’ a s--t in yo’ toilet?”he asks his captive audience. Personally, I’d ask him to sing once he wasthrough. But I digress. Mid-rant,Brown is suddenly distracted by one of his own songs playing in his head. He staresinto space with the same expressionEddie Murphywore when the microphoneelectrocuted him during the “James Brown Celebrity Hot Tub” skiton SaturdayNight Live. After regaining composure, Brown accidentally shoots a hole in theceiling before calling out the offending crapper and congratulating her forbravely defying his “no pooping in mah bathroom” rules. Hearing sirens in the distance,Brown mutters “uh-oh, I betta go!” As he walks out, a neon sign announces themovie’s title. I bring thisscene up to illustrate the first of many bad choices the filmmakers of “Get onUp” make during its 2-hour plus runtime. James Brown enters this retelling ofhis life story not as the Godfather of Soul nor as the young boy who willbecome hardened and confused by life’s troubles. He enters it as a buffoonreeking of danger and insanity who is rendered harmless by his own comicineptitude. This image hangs over “Get on Up.” Since the film hops around intime like an arthritic rabbit, we know that, despite how powerful and importantBrown becomes during the course of the film, we must eventually return to thisneutered, cartoonish version of him. Like mostbiopics, “Get on Up” plays like a greatest hits album of its subject’s successesand failures. A life as rich and complicated as Brown’s would require an HBOseries. Here was a man who wrote civil rights anthems and suffered through aJim Crow South, yet who considered former segregationist Strom Thurmond agrandfather figure. Exploring complexities like that aren’t always doable in ashort time. But the simpler things “Get on Up” leaves out are stillaggravating. Its goal is to whitewash and mass market Brown’s story to themasses, to make the singer perhaps most inextricably bound to Blackness inAmerican history fit comfortably in the post-racial notions of today. It prefersa safer, sanitized James Brown. For example, we see Brown influencing a youngMick Jagger(who is a producer on this film) but there is absolutely no mentionof how samples of Brown’s music formed the cornerstone of hip-hop from oldschool to gangsta rap. You might consider this oversight to be unimportant, andyou’d be wrong. Advertisement Truth betold, “Get on Up” isn’t really interested in exploring how important Brown’smusic was to any of the numerous styles it influenced. Instead, it just wantsto play some of the big hits you love while ticking off a checklist ofstandard biopic milestones. Screenwriters Jez andJohn-Henry Butterworthtry to hide this by fragmentingthe story, jumping back and forth in time with little regard to momentum oremotional build-up. The jumps in time rarely feel related to one another asnarrative. One minute, we’re in 1930’s South Carolina with James, his mother(Viola Davis) and aunt Honey (Octavia Spencer), the next we’re in the 1970s,watching Brown mistreat his martyrdom-worthy right hand man Bobby Byrd (NelsanEllis). “Get on Up”also makes the near-fatal mistake of having Brown break the fourth wall to talkto the audience. The device is not used enough to be warranted nor clever, andin one case, it’s downright egregious. In an extremely effective long shot,Brown unleashes a horrific beating on his wife Dee Dee (Jill Scott), afterwhich he walks directly toward the camera, stops and sneers at us like apomaded Freddy Krueger. It dragged me right out of the moment and the film. Bosemanmakes a very credible James Brown. His makeup and hair are realistic andstunning, and in the few instances Taylor decides to give us a full shot ofBrown during musical numbers, it appears as if Boseman has done his dancinghomework. Watching him perform, and listening to him perfectly nail Brown’s speakingvoice are the true pleasures of “Get on Up.” Playing Brown from a teenager onward(Jamarion Scott complements nicely as the younger version of Brown), Boseman isnever unconvincing, even in that embarrassing opening scene. He is especiallygood in the film’s quiet moments like the scene where Brown’s mother visits thestar in his dressing room. Davis reminds us why she’s the queen of the onscreencry, but Boseman’s beautiful underplaying keeps her from stealing the scene. Boseman’slast scene rendition of “Try Me” is so emotionally well-synched to Brown’svocal that it almost made me forgive “Get on Up”’s trespasses. Of the otheractors, only Jill Scott, Ellis andDan Aykroydreally register. Aykroyd, who workedwith Brown on both “Blues Brothers” movies, looks at and speaks to Boseman withgenuine affection, making his mentor role a successful supporting performance.Ellis is fantastic, and Scott turns what could have been solely a victim roleinto a sexy, complicated depiction of a woman who truly believes in the maritalvow “for better and for worse.” Thetechnical credits are also proficient.Stephen Goldblatt’s cinematography andSharen Davis’ costumes effectively highlight each time period. Goldblatt’s workin the Jamarion Scott sequences has an ominous darkness that hints at the psychologicaldevastation poverty and racism would render on James Brown. Davis’ costumesvisually highlight Brown’s different musical periods, from the Famous Flames tohis 70’s funk with Bootsy Collins. Advertisement Eventually, “thedirector of 'The Help'” (as the ads so prominently tell us) returns to Brown andhis jacked-up green jumpsuit, leading the cops on a bizarre, violent car chasewhere the cops have little problem shooting at the hardest working man in showbusiness. Thankfully, we’re spared the Nick Nolte-ish mug shot Brown posed forpost-arrest, and to be clear, I’ve no problems with this true-life eventappearing in “Get on Up.” I just question its placement at the beginning. Despite mygrievances, there is fun and enjoyment to be had here. Any excuse to hear aJames Brown song is good enough for me, and I enjoyed seeingCraig Robinson’sMaceo Parker amongst the band performers. The band scenes are some of the film’sbest, and a restaurant scene between Brown andLittle Richardis fun for  threatening to veer off into seduction. BrandonSmith’s Richard bats his eyes at Brown and calls him “sugar.” Brown’s complete lackof discomfort is kind of liberating. I went into “GetOn Up” hoping for “Sex Machine.” Instead, I got “Living in America.” That’s nota bad song, to be sure, but it’s far less funky, ethnic and dangerous than onewould expect. So is this movie.