The second feature written and directed by the prodigiouslytalented IrishmanJohn Michael McDonaghopens with a quote from SaintAugustine: “Despair not, one of the thieves was spared; presume not, one of thethieves was not.” (It is no accident that this bit of wisdom is cited in“Waiting For Godot,” an obscure theatrical work by another talented Irishmanname of Beckett.) Later in the movie, Fiona (Kelly Reilly) the daughter ofCounty Sligo priest James Lavelle (Brendan Gleeson)—Lavelle took the vows afterhis wife, Fiona’s mother, died years earlier—takes confession with her literaland spiritual father, and, obliquely addressing the troubles that informed herrecent, half-hearted suicide attempt, asserts, “I belong to myself, not toanyone else.” To which Father James responds, “True. False.” Advertisement A mordant sense of duality that eventually takes onnear-apocalyptic dimensions runs through this very darkly comic tale, telling aweek in the life of Father James. Sunday kicks off pretty horribly. A manostensibly offering Father James his confession explicitly describes his sexualabuse at the hands of the priest years earlier, and outline his plan forrevenge: he intends to kill a “good priest” in exactly a week. He means forthat good priest to be Father James, and invites him to a beach spot to meethis doom. This disturbs James, as well it might. But he does not go tothe authorities. Instead, he tends to his flock, such as it is. And a moreperverse bunch would be hard to find anywhere else than in a provincial, lonelyIrish remote. There’s the local butcher (Chris O’Dowd), who might well beslapping around his sexpot wife (Oria O’Rourke), who’s brazenly conducting anaffair with an African immigrant auto mechanic (Isaach de Bankole). The localbarkeep’s a ball of resentment, the town’s most dapper young man is completelysocially inept, the police chief’s a glib sourpuss who makes no attempt todisguise the fact that he does business with a manic,Jimmy-Cagney-impersonating male prostitute. The local hospital biggie is amonstrously cynical atheist with a monstrous anecdote to explain his poorattitude. The local fat cat is swilling in his ale, and worse, at his manseafter being abandoned by his wife and child. And so on. It is again no accidentthat the only characters who are at all kind to Father James, besides hisdaughter, are non-Irish ones: a very aged American ex-pat author (M. EmmettWalsh, whose presence is extremely welcome despite his looking like deathwarmed over, which admittedly works for the character), determined to offhimself before he goes completely decrepit, and a French widow (Marie Josée Croze)who commiserates with Father James after he performs last rites on her husband. McDonagh’s structuring is unusual: almost all thescenes are what are referred to in the theater as “two handers,” that is,exchanges between only two characters. Each scene tackles a particularvariation on the movie’s theme, which is the earning of forgiveness, andwhether taking what’s said to be the right action is sufficient to do so.Gleeson’s performance is magnificent; sharp, compassionate, bemused, never notintellectually active. McDonagh’s dialogue is similarly never not sharp, andonly occasionally lost to an actor’s Irish accent. As the picture progresses,Father James’ parishioners morph from a group of perverse individuals to one ofintransigently spiteful lunatics. McDonagh takes considerable risks, in thisday and age, crafting what’s essentially an absurdist allegory. By the film’sfinale, this viewer felt that one or two of the risks didn’t entirely pay off,but my admiration for McDonagh’s brass remained intact. This is the kind ofmovie that galvanizes and discomfits while it’s on screen, and is terrificfodder for conversation long after its credits roll. Even if you are neitherCatholic nor Irish, this “Calvary” will in no way be a useless sacrifice of your moviegoing time.Advertisement