“4 Minute Mile” at least has the decency to acknowledge thatit’s aware of its underdog sports-movie clichés, especially the ones that made“The Karate Kid” such an ‘80s classic.Kelly Blatz, as a troubled but talented high school runnernamed Drew, doesn’t understand why the aging, alcoholic coach Coleman (RichardJenkins) makes him perform all kinds of manual labor when he should be traininghim for the regional track meet. Among the grueling work that Drew is forced toendure: Sanding the coach’s dilapidated boat while coach himself sits back andenjoys yet another cigarette. “Wax on, wax off,” Coleman says with a wry smile. Advertisement DirectorCharles-Olivier Michaudand writersJosh CampbellandJeff Van Wieuse this rare moment of humor to say what we’re all thinkingas viewers. Yet the filmmakers remain unrelenting in running through achecklist of genre conventions. There’s the good-hearted kid from the wrongside of the tracks, the mentor seeking his own redemption, the trash-talkingcompetitor, the mom struggling to keep her family together and the sweetlysupportive girlfriend. And the montages—oh, so many montages. “Even 'Rocky’had a montage,” to quote a song from the great “Team America: World Police.” Still, “4 Minute Mile” is efficient in its storytelling—which is fitting, given that it’s about a sprinter—and Jenkins and Blatz havesolid chemistry with each other. To the surprise of absolutely no one, Jenkins enlivensthis well-worn material through his sheer presence, his intelligent choices andthe emotional truth he brings to even the most obvious scenes. He’s got his work cut out for him, though, given the hammylines he’s saddled with as his character steadily spouts inspirational nuggets.“Running is not just physical. It’s in your head,” Coleman says when he firstagrees to train Drew. And in a repeated theme involving running through yourinner demons: “If you do face that fear, it’ll change your life.” Drew already has faced a lot of hardship at a young age. Hisfather died when he was a child; 10 years later, he and his brother (amuscled-and-tattedCam Gigandet) and mother (a blowsy, barely-there KimBasinger) are struggling to pay the mortgage on their working-class Seattlehome. Older brother Wes, who’s on parole, ropes Drew into dropping off cashpayments to a seedy local drug dealer. Clearly, this arrangement won’t endwell. But there’s hope for Drew. He’s fast. He gets kicked off thehigh school track team for being mouthy but maintains a flirty friendship withfellow runner Lisa (Analeigh Tipton, who has an off-kilter likability but isstuck serving as a cheerleader). Coleman sees something special in Drew andoffers to teach him everything he knows—granted that he changes his eventfrom the 440 to the mile, and that he strives to run that distance in apunishing four minutes. And as it just so happens, just as Drew is in need of afather figure, Coleman is in need of a son. His own boy—who was a talentedrunner himself—was killed in a car accident. It’s all extremely formulaic andconvenient. Advertisement Like Mr. Miyagi, Coleman is sad, lonely and alone and hedrinks heavily to numb the pain. There’s a mystical quality to his self-imposedisolation. Do you think it’s possible that by working with this surly kid, itwill improve both of their lives? First, though, Drew has to agree to Coleman’s unorthodoxtraining methods, which include running 15-second sprints through ankle-deepwater, dragging a giant tire from one side of a swimming pool to the other anddoing quarter-mile laps around the docks instead of at the slick and shinytrack. In one artfully lighted montage after another, Drew runs around hisneighborhood, at sunset, through the city streets, across parking lots and inslow motion. Despite its overly familiar trajectory, though, “4 MinuteMile” is nicely understated, and surprisingly not as mawkish as the materialmight suggest. Michaud depicts the blue-collar Washington settings vividly. Andwhile Blatz is a bit of a handsome, blank slate aside from his character’ssullenness, he’s believable in his physicality—which is crucial given thathe’s running, or talking about running, or planning to run nearly the entiretime. If only his destination were more of a mystery.