You wouldn’t know it to look at me now, but there was once atime when I had quite a bit of expertise in the Marvel Universe. I came asclose to tearing up while reading a comic book as I’ll ever do when the ScarletWitch finally married The Vision­—as eloquent an argument for marriage equalityas genre fiction has ever essayed, by the way. I did, I must admit, check outwell before the entity called The Guardians of the Galaxy turned up in saiduniverse. I bring this up because there are some MU characters in the movie "Guardians of the Galaxy" that I did recognize—super-evil demigod Thanos, DraxThe Destroyer, and one or two others I guess—but I ultimately found that it wasthat particular continuity, the need to tie this movie’s adventures intosomething larger, that made the movie lag a bit. Advertisement In many respects, “Guardians,” directed and co-written byindie witJames Gunn, and starring buffed-up former schlubChris PrattandReally Big Sci-Fi Blockbuster vetZoe Saldana(here dyed green as opposed toher "Avatar" blue), is a fun and relatively fresh space Western. Think “Firefly” pitched at 15-year-olds, with a lot of overt "Star Wars" nods. And super-“irreverent”dialogue that is, more often than not, genuinely funny. The wisecracking by thecharacters played by Pratt (a kind of junior Han Solo) and voiced by BradleyCooper (whose Rocket Raccoon, who is, yes, a genetically altered raccoon) is soincessant viewers of a certain age might wonder whether this movie has been putthrough the "What’s Up Tiger Lily" dialogue-replacement treatment beforerelease.Pratt’s self-styled “Starlord” and Rocket are not the strangest ofinitially inadvertent teammates in this intergalactic posse. Saldana’s Gamorais a stealthy warrior princess who’s been lying low in an evil family beforerevealing her good intentions; wrestling starDave Bautista’s Drax is avengeance-driven behemoth whose florid language only briefly masks hisinability to take anything other than literally; and Rocky’s “muscle,” Groot, is a walking,minimally talking tree. These guys are entertainingly motley, which makes thefact that their mission, to save the universe from a mass-murderingmegalomaniac who seeks an item which will grant him unimaginable mass-murderingpower (yes, more mass-murdering power than he ever had before), is generic in away that’s pretty consistent with movies of this sort. You may have noticed, incidentally, that a lot of filmcritics tend to get kind of defensive when reviewing movies based on comicbooks. Like, you probably noticed that up top I tried to claim some comicbook-respecting bonafides. I’ve done this thing before when reviewingcomic-book movies. Some day, I may have to actually bring out the big guns,like the fact that I used to be palsy with Mike Kaluta, or that I once went toa Halloween party at Berni Wrightson’s house. I don’t do this because I’m afraidof getting death threats from easily irritated comic book fans (which hasn’thappened to me, and thanks). I do it because as someone who got a lot out ofcomics growing up, and still has a healthy respect for the graphic form, I findcomic book movies kind of frustrating, and am bent out of shape by having myfrustration chalked up to a lack of understanding of the form.Advertisement What does thishave to do with “Guardians?” It ties into what I mentioned before. While thismovie is pretty lively in a lot of its particulars, the stilted portent withwhich its villains—the bumpy-jawed Thanos (Josh Brolin, not that you can tell)and the megalomaniacal Ronan (Lee Pace)—make themselves felt is pretty tired.The “funny animal” tribute/homages of “Guardians” bump up uncomfortably againstthe faux-majesty of the bad guys in a way that the actual comic-book form ismalleable enough to at least sidestep. I think Gunn knows it, too: one of themovie’s only genuinely subversive jokes sees one of the heroes actually yawningin the pro-forma slow-motion “walk to destiny” shot that heralds the movie’sclimax. Which climax is, as is also pro forma, big and loud and filled withindiscriminate destruction and slaughter of sentient beings. But as it takesplace on a planet other than the one the audience is on and so doesn’t involvethe razing of a recognizable city, it’s a little less troubling than it mighthave been.It seems as if I’m listing a lot of not-fun things in what I’vecalled a fun movie, but again, I’m just voicing some frustration because, in mypuny mind—which can only imagine the extent to which Gunn and his team had tofight for every bit of creative license they were allowed—the not-fun partsseemed entirely avoidable. What will win the day among those not given to overthinkingwill be the charm of the cast—which also includesBenicio Del Toroin a bitrole that allows him to exercise a generous amount of his legendary performingeccentricity, andMichael Rookerin a gruff part that would have gone to RonPerlman had GuillermoDel Torodirected the movie—the sunniness of its eventualoptimism, and the infectiousness of its vintage-Earth-pop soundtrack. Asoundtrack the film’s characters appreciate as much as the audience will, whichis part of the whole point.