“After” is a handsomely mounted, largely watchable, and Isuppose reasonably well-intentioned family drama with things to say about griefand loss and deception. It is also kind of irritating in is purposefuldisingenuousness and determined challenges to plausibility. Your mileage mayvary, as they say. “Family’s the most important thing,” Nora Valentino(Kathleen Quinlan) chides one of her mildly recalcitrant children early on inthe picture. Nora is the matriarch of a clan in Rochester, New York; its malehead Mitch (John Doman) runs a stone works/contracting biz—or, as of late, hasbeen letting his eldest son Christian (Pablo Schreiber) run it. There’s ascrew-up younger brother, a bar-owning sister, and some extended family closeto the clan, and it’s a pretty tight-knit bunch. But the apple of Nora’s eye isthe one who’s never there physically: daughter Sam, who went to make her way inthe big bad city of Manhattan a while back, and keeps in touch via chipperhome-video updates, all delivered in VHS. For the movie is a period piece ofsorts, set in the fall of 2002. Advertisement The Valentinos are pretty protective of Nora, who can snap emotionallyfor the seemingly flimsiest of reasons: she comes close to cracking up afterinadvertently stepping on a single flower in her well-tended backyard garden.Looking after Nora takes its toll on Mitch, and when he’s not fiercely hoveringover his wife he’s bitching about immigrants who are screwing up this country.He’s a tough guy to like, and Doman is in a sense almost too effective atdepicting that side of the character. As Mitch is in this particular realmalmost exclusively, Christian finds himself at loose ends trying to mop up themess his dad’s business has become. It’s nice to see Schreiber in a role that’snot that of a complete sociopath (as on “Orange Is The New Black”) or utterlyderanged lunatic (as on the highly overstated “Save Benson” story arc on “Lawand Order: SVU”). And speaking of “SVU,”Diane Neal, who played a quietly sexyADA on that show for a spell, cuts loose a bit here as a hard-drinking barmaidwho, along with the actual Valentinos, is involved in a subterfuge that couldspell disaster for the family at any second. As I am not a spoilery kind of reviewer, I can say no more.As I mentioned, the movie is well put together. Nicely paced, attractivelyshot, competent dialogue, all that. The press materials for the picture talkabout a “slow reveal,” but I myself guessed the story’s secret pretty quickly.And while I understand the place the movie is coming from, I just couldn’t buythe scenario, and in a certain respect, I couldn’t summon up what the filmmakersbelieve to be the necessary sympathy for its participants. As such, I found“After” a pretty unfulfilling sit. Its conscientiousness is marred, I think, bya sentimentality that compels director Pieter Gasperz and writer SabrinaGennerino to stretch a narrative metaphor way farther than could be reasonablytolerated.