When the expansive exhibition “Iran Modern” opened at NewYork’s Asia Society last September, more than one critic noted that itcontained news that was bound to surprise many American art lovers: that Iran,of all places, has a vital modern art movement that has survived from the late1940s till now and includes numerous artworks that look very impressive whenset next to those of the West, whose curators and chroniclers too often stilldiscuss modern art as if it were solely a product of their culture rather than a global phenomenon. Advertisement One of the artists prominently represented in thatexhibition, Bahman Mohassess, is the subject of Iranian filmmaker MitraFarahani’s fascinating documentary “Fifi Howls from Happiness,” which is asmuch a portrait of an extravagant personality as it is an account of his work.That work, though, is singularly significant, in part because the artist hasjoined some of his nominal enemies in trying to destroy as much of it as hecan. Although filmgoers may not recognize his name, the film shows us early onthat Mohassess paintings and sculptures regularly command prices in thehundreds of thousands of Euros at European art houses. When Farahani set out to make a film about Mohassess, shefirst had to find him and convince him to be interviewed, no easy task for anartist who had deliberately retreated from the world and shrouded himself inmystery. Though for roughly a half-century he had divided his time between Iranand Italy, by 2010, when the film was made, he was only residing in his secondhomeland. Farahani finds him in a hotel in Rome. Though prone togiving the filmmaker regular suggestions on how to do her work, he seems tohave no hesitancy about being filmed. In fact, like other artists, heapparently regards his life as one of his creations, and may have decided thathis performance for Farahani’s camera would rank among his final works. Nearing 80, with a terrible smoker’s rasp, he seems quitehappy to talk on and on as long as he can cadge cigarettes. Yet his chipperdemeanor and explosive laughter are not the marks of a man who’s reached acontemplative serenity toward the end of his life, but quite the opposite.Though he does it with a grin, Mohassess rages against the dying of the lightas well as many of the things the world presented him with during his life. Born in the Caspian Sea town of Rasht, he was studying artin Tehran in 1953 when an American-backed coup overthrew Iran’s democraticgovernment and reinstalled an autocratic monarch. The political and culturalrepercussions of this event seem to have propelled his first move to Italy, andperhaps gave him an enduring cynicism regarding governments. Like many Iranianartists (including filmmakers) of his generation, he had works suppressed underthe Shah’s regime (one commissioned statue of the royal family we see is quitedaring) before the 1979 Revolution, and under the Islamic Republic after. Advertisement The art works we are shown (mainly in reproductions) asMohassess talks about his career are quite striking, evoking comparisons fromPicasso and Matisse to Francis Bacon (the film’s title comes from a paintingthat hangs in his living room). Unlike other Iranian modern artists, he doesn’tuse visual motifs from the Islamic and pre-Islamic past, and the politicalsubjects he sometimes targets tend to be global—the My Lai Massacre,environmental disasters—rather than specifically Iranian. Why does the artist seem intent on destroying the lion’sshare (though not all) of his creations? He never offers a very clearexplanation for this, but it seems of a piece with his general disenchantmentwith the conditions of existence. Describing his state of mind, he says, “I amdisgusted by everything.” He is no less candid about his homosexuality. We seeportraits of young men he has fancied or been involved with and he notes thatall “had fiancées.” He’s not interested in guys who are exclusively gay andlaments that contemporary gays have “eradicated [homosexuality’s] forbiddencharacter. All its beauty was in the prohibition.” (Given this candor, it’s toobad Farahani doesn’t ask him about what it was like to live as a homosexual inIran both before and after the Revolution.) Roughly two-thirds of the way through the film, newcharacters are introduced: two wealthy Iranian brothers who live in Dubai andwant to commission a major work by Mohassess. They come to visit and, where hehad been expecting to find “stiff and stuffy” types, it turns out they’re“decent” guys whose company the old misanthrope obviously enjoys very much.Things remain on a genial level even when they haggle about money (they offer a10K-Euro down payment on the 100K total; he demands 70K, saying it’s the wayhe’s always worked), and he allows that if for some reason he’s unable tocomplete the work, they can take what they’re owed from the work left in hispossession at his death. It’s a prescient provision. Death is not far away whenFarahani begins her film and she’s still working as it closes in. As if toconfirm how crucial timing is to documentaries, the artist gives the filmmakera last performance that helps make her portrait of him as extraordinary as theman it portrays. No doubt, it suited his monumental self-regard to have thelast word rather than leaving it to bone-pickers and biographers.