While critics are ordained to go into every film by leavingas many preconceptions as possible at the door, I have to admit to somethingregarding “About Alex,” the new dramedy starring a number of talented TV stars,includingAubrey Plaza(“Parks and Recreation”),Max Greenfield(“New Girl”),Jane Levy(“Suburgatory”) andJason Ritter(“Parenthood”): I’m exhausted byquarter-life crisis variations on “The Big Chill.” They pop up about everyother month—films in which a group of friends are reunited by a key event(often a death or suicide) and pull their skeletons screaming from the closet,usually over a few joints and while they dance around a cabin. The subgenre hasexhausted almost all of whatever creative energy it once had, and too oftenfeatures talented people forced to go through overly scripted moments. And so Iwas pleasantly surprised by much of “About Alex,” a film that features astronger-than-average ensemble for this subgenre even if it too often succumbs topredictable, traditional turns of Screenwriting 101. When the more talentedmembers of the cast are allowed to let their characters breathe and existoutside of their clichés, “About Alex” has the kind of energy that reminds one,even this cynical critic, why writers and directors keep returning to thisoft-told tale. Advertisement Alex (Jason Ritter) has tried to kill himself, although it’s clearthat it was more of a cry for help than an actual attempt on his life. Amontage of his friends getting “the call” that Alex tried to shuffle off thismortal coil introduces us to his former college buddies who have now beendivided by geography and the simple progression of life. Alex’s former BFFscome to his side for a weekend to get him over the emotional hump, answer someopen questions within their circle of friends, and experience the emotional upheavalthat often comes with revelations like the fact that someone you love has triedto kill himself. Alex’s closest friend is Ben (Nate Parker), a writer who hasbeen dealing with intense block as he tries to figure out what to do next. Ben isshattered by the suicide attempt because he ignored Alex’s phone calls in thedays leading up to it and so naturally blames himself. He wasn’t there when a friend reached out his hand. Benis partners with Siri (Maggie Grace), another of Alex’s friends who happens tobe late (not as in “for dinner” but as in “with child”). How will Ben take it when he learns Siri is pregnant? Josh (Max Greenfield) is the abrasive member of the group,the one who wants to confront Alex with a WTF style of grief management to get to the bottom of why he tried to kill himself. More concerned thanconfrontational is Sarah (Aubrey Plaza), who hooks up with Josh every now andthen, but has a crush on Isaac (Max Minghella), the most Yuppie of the gang. Hemay have even voted for Bush (gasp). Complicating matters, Isaac brings his relativelynew girlfriend Kate (Jane Levy) for the reunion/intervention. You can imaginehow well that goes. Advertisement Sort of. What’s kind of refreshing about “About Alex” isthat the predictable map through the clichés of this subgenre that seems to becharted in the opening scenes isn’t quite followed. It’s crystal clear whichsecrets will be revealed, but how they are brought to the surface and how theyare handled is often done with more of an emphasis on character than cliché.Levy’s Kate isn’t merely the “other woman,” thanks in large part to yet anotherlikable performance by the star of “Evil Dead,” someone who I find moreinteresting with each role. Jason Ritter finds the kind emotional undercurrentthat’s often missing from these troubled characters. There’s something honestin the way his voice quivers that makes his depression seem more genuine. Thereare a couple of performances that are less effective than others (the youngJesse Zwickwrites more honestly for the men—Max Minghella, Nate Parker—than fortheir female counterparts—both Maggie Grace and Aubrey Plaza feel underwritten),but when Zwick allows his characters to breathe, “About Alex” feels true. Theset-up and climax may be overwritten, but what’s in the middle has a purity ofcharacter often missing from the genre. I wish Zwick trusted his cast a bitmore to give them fewer contrivances and more scenes of friendly interaction,but there’s enough here to make one anticipate what he does next. And maybeeven to make me dread the next 20-something "Big Chill" a little less.