"AMaster Builder" is the last cinematic collaboration from theater veteransAndre GregoryandWallace Shawn. While that may not seem like a big deal tomost people, there are some movie lovers out there who will respond to thatnews with the kind of giddiness that a fanboy might feel toward a new"Star Wars" movie. After all, their first project was "My Dinnerwith Andre," the 1981 film collaboration with filmmakerLouis Mallechronicling a long dinner conversation between the two that became a surpriseart-house hit, helped to jump-start the then-embryonic American independentfilm movement and inspired one of the funniest throwaway jokes on "TheSimpsons" and one of the most inspired episodes of "Community."In 1994, they followed that up by reuniting with Malle for what would prove tobe the director's final film, the equally astounding "Vanya on 42ndStreet," a powerful screen version of an adaptation of Chekov's"Uncle Vanya" that they had been rehearsingin a run-down church with a group of actorsfor years.Advertisement For theirlatest project, Gregory and Shawn have chosen to to take another play that theyhave been working on for over 14 years—a production of Henrik Ibsen's"The Master Builder" adapted by Shawn and staged by Gregory—andbring it to the screen. This may not sound like the most potentially cinematicof concepts but if anyone could possibly pull it off, it is these guys.However, the third time is not quite the charm as this effort never quitemanages to pull off the trick of presenting such difficult material in theexciting manner of their previous efforts and it is only through theconsiderable efforts of the lead actors that it ultimately becomes somethingworth watching. Shawnstars as Halvard Solness, a famed architect who, despite his advancing yearsand growing lack of interest in pursuing his craft, is nevertheless unwillingto cede control of any aspect of his professional or personal lives. Havingsuccessfully usurped his mentor, Brovik (Gregory), during the early part of hiscareer, Solness is wary of having the same thing happen to him, and, despiterecognizing the talent of his assistant, Ragnar (Jeff Biegl), who is Brovik'sson, he refuses to let the younger man strike out on his own and has even goneso far to employ the younger man's fiancee, Kaya (Emily McDonnell), as hisbookkeeper and mistress as a way of keeping him close by. At home, he isequally cruel to his wife, Aline (Julie Hagerty), who has been in a state ofmourning since the loss of their twin sons years ago when they were mereinfants. Thingsbegin to abruptly change with the arrival of Hilde (Lisa Joyce), a mysteriousyoung woman of about 22 who is the daughter of an old acquaintance and whoneeds a place to stay for the evening. It is soon revealed that she and Solnessmet a decade earlier when he designed a great tower in her town and where hemay have acted improperly towards the then 12-year-old girl at a party at herhouse. At the very least, he made a promise that he would return for her in 10years to claim her as his princess. Now the 10 years are up but has she reallyturned up in response to an off-hand promise that Solness doesn't even remembermaking or is there something more sinister behind her sudden appearance? Advertisement With itsemphasis on psychological underpinnings and overt symbolism over narrative,"The Master Builder" is no walk in the park and it is to the creditof Shawn and Gregory that they have managed to remain relatively true to thesource material. Unfortunately, what works on the stage does not necessarilytranslate on the screen and there are a few too many scenes featuringcharacters talking in oblique circles too long for their own good. The onemajor addition that Shawn has made is to now start the story with Solness onhis deathbed until the arrival of Hilde instantly rejuvenates him—a move thatnot only adds virtually nothing to the proceedings but winds up doing no smallamount of damage to Ibsen's carefully cultivated sense of dramatic ambiguity.As for the dialogue, it has an oddly stilted quality to it that suggests thatit went through an Internet translator one time too many for its own good andsince it has been reported that Shawn doesn't actually know any Norwegian, thatmay have been the case. "AMaster Builder" was directed byJonathan Demmeand while he has made anynumber of wonderful films in the past—"Citizen's Band," "Melvinand Howard," "Something Wild," "Silence of the Lambs"and "Rachel Getting Married"—his preference for freewheeling narrativesthat take audiences on unexpected journeys makes him an odd choice to direct aproject of this sort. Although he employs a couple of different cinematicstyles here—the opening deathbed scenes have the harsh visual style of one ofthe old Dogme films while the later one have a softer and more conventionallook—he never quite manages to bring the material to life as a film in the waythat Malle did so wonderfully in "My Dinner with Andre" and"Vanya on 42nd Street." As a simple recording of a theatrical presentation,which is pretty much what it is, it doesn't quite work either as Demme isunable to bring the filmed record to life as he has done in such spellbindingperformance films as "Stop Making Sense, "Swimming to Cambodia"and his trio of concert films featuringNeil Young. And yet,while "A Master Builder" never really catches fire as a film, it isstill more or less worth watching, especially for those with no desire to watchninja turtles, monster storms or dance-offs, thanks to the two leadperformances. To put it charitably, Wallace Shawn is perhaps the furthest thingimaginable from Ibsen's original conception of Solness—I picture the"Atlantic City"-eraBurt Lancaster—but he is so commanding in thepart that by the time the film ends, it is almost impossible to imagine anyoneelse in the role. Advertisement He is playing one of the most malignantmonsters imaginable—and this is before we learn the full extent of hisdepravity—but not only does he manage to make him eminently compelling andwatchable throughout, he even manages to find a way to evoke a certain amountof empathy for him despite his cruelties. As Hilde, relative newcomer LisaJoyce more than holds her own against Shawn with a raw and powerful performancethat fully and fascinatingly embraces Hilde's complex nature. Their scenestogether have such raw power to them that they give "A MasterBuilder" the dramatic and emotionally jump-start that it too often needs.