Given our national interest in all things weather-related, “Intothe Storm” feels like an inevitability, almost a cinematic obligation to thecountry’s latest obsession, and it’s about as creatively inspired as that description makesit out to be. As we turn Weather Channel personalities into celebrities, marvelat the swaths of destruction left by Superstorms like Sandy and even tune intoweather-related escapism like “Sharknado 2: The Second One” in record-breakingnumbers, someone was bound to revisit the impact of Mother Nature on cinema. It’sbeen a long time since “Twister.” And so it’s time to toss cows through the airagain and this time we’ll send school buses and maybe even a few airplanes after them. There are a few clever nods to another national obsession—documenting everyaspect of our lives for posterity later and virality now—through a mostly foundfootage structure and the visual effects are surprisingly strong throughout, butthe complete lack of interesting characters and almost no narrative at allmakes for a film that’s hollow. The storm has more personality than the peoplewho flee from it. Advertisement Said people include the square-jawed Vice Principal of thelocal high school, Gary (Richard Armitage), and his two sons Donnie (MaxDeacon) and Trey (Nathan Kress). Donnie is the good kid, the one who plans tofilm the upcoming graduation ceremony for dad and pines for the prettiest girlin school, Kaitlyn (Alycia Debnam Carey). Trey is a bit younger and a bit more rebellious.Donnie finally gets up the courage to talk to Kaitlyn and the two head off tofinish a project on Graduation Day, the same day in which a superstorm willdevastate the area. Lesson? Don’t get up the courage to talk to the girl youlike. It’s safer that way. The locals—which also includes drunk, “Jackass” wannabesReevis (Jon Reep) and Donk (Kyle Davis)—are joined on this fateful day by stormchasers headed by researcher Allison (Sarah WayneCallies of “The Walking Dead”fame) and daredevil pioneer Pete (Matt Walsh), the inventor of the TITUS, atank-like vehicle that can drive right into the eye of a storm, anchor itselfto the ground, and film what has never been seen before, both for ratings andresearch. Pete’s both a thrill-seeker and a researcher. In today’sworld as reflected by “Into the Storm,” they’re one and the same. “Into theStorm” is at least half seen through the lenses of the omnipresent cameras oftoday’s world from iPhones to school security cameras to news helicopters toAllison & Pete’s staff. There’s something there, hidden beneath the noiseand fury, about how we don’t just experience landscape-changing events likesuperstorms anymore, we chronicle them. I wish that element of “Into the Storm”had been more fully developed by writerJohn Swetnambut perhaps I’m giving toomuch thematic credit to something that was ultimately just a pitch—“A foundfootage disaster movie!” The structure and impressive effects of “Into the Storm”could keep viewers entertained on a rainy weekend evening, but it’s the shallow,non-existent characterizations that keep it from working. Donnie and Trey needto be the relatable kids at the heart of a nightmare-nado, but they’re flat andboring, especially after poor Donnie and Kaitlyn get stuck under rubble beforewe’ve been given a reason to care about if they make it out or not. “Into theStorm” tells the too-true story of men and women who watch their lives foreveraltered by the unpredictability of Mother Nature although we’re never given a reasonto care about these people any more than the faceless ones in the homesdestroyed through CGI. Gary is a widow, Allison has a daughter, Pete is dyingfor that “big score,” etc. I’m not expecting deep character development here,but those brief descriptions are literally all you get. The survivors of thereal-life storms that inspired this film, the personalities on The WeatherChannel, even the damn non-characters of “Sharknado” are all more interesting.Give us the storms, but don’t forget to make those on whom they landinteresting too. Advertisement