“The Hundred-Foot Journey” is a film that demands that youtake it seriously. With its feel-good themes of multicultural understanding, itis about Something Important. It even comes with the stamp of approval from titanictastemakersOprah WinfreyandSteven Spielberg, who both serve as producers.What more convincing could you possibly need? There’s something familiar about the treacly andsanctimonious way this film is being packaged. It reeks of late-‘90s/early ‘00sMiramax fare: films with tasteful yet ubiquitous ad campaigns and unabashedOscar aspirations which suggested that seeing them (and, more importantly,voting for them) would make you a better person. Films like “The Cider HouseRules,” “Chocolat” and “The Shipping News.” Films by Swedish director LasseHallstrom. Hallstrom just happens to be the director here, as well, andthe similarities to “Chocolat” are inescapable. Stop me if think you’ve heardthis one before: A family moves into a quaint but closed-minded French villageand shakes things up with an enticing array of culinary delicacies. This newenterprise happens to sit across the street from a conservative and reveredbuilding that’s a town treasure. But the food in question isn’t a bon bon thistime—rather, the movie is the bon bon itself. But despite being handsomely crafted, well acted and evensufficiently enjoyable, “The Hundred-Foot Journey” is also conventional andpredictable. And for a film that’s all about opening up your senses andsampling spicy, exotic tastes, this comic drama is entirely too safe and even alittle bland. What livens things up, though, is the interplay betweenHelen MirrenandOm Purias battling restaurant owners operating across the streetfrom each other—100 feet away from each other, to be exact, a short butfraught trip that various characters take for various reasons. Watching theseveteran actors stoop to sabotage each other provides a consistent source oflaughs. She’s all sharp angles, piercing looks and biting quips; he’s all roundjoviality, boisterous blasts and warmhearted optimism. The contrast betweenthe British Oscar-winner and the Indian acting legend offers the only tensionin this otherwise soft and gooey dish—that is, until the film goes all softand gooey, too. Mirren stars as Madame Mallory, owner of Le Saule Pleurer(The Weeping Willow), an elegant and expensive French restaurant that’s thewinner of a prestigious Michelin star. But one star isn’t enough for the coldlydriven Mme. Mallory—she wants another, and then another. But her bloodless quest for gourmet grandeur is interruptedby the arrival across the street of an Indian family: the Kadams, who’ve beenwandering around Europe ever since their beloved restaurant back home burneddown during political rioting. When the brakes on their car malfunction on atreacherous stretch of spectacular countryside, Papa (Puri) insists it’s a signfrom his late wife and decides to open a new eatery in the charming town at thebottom of the hill. Never mind that one of the most celebrated restaurants inall of France is sitting right across the street from the empty building herents. Never mind that they are in an insular part of the country where theresidents probably don’t even know what Indian cuisine is, much less like it,as his children point out. He has faith in his food—and in his son, Hassan(Manish Dayal), a brilliant, young chef. Just as Papa and Mme. Mallory strike up a sparky rivalry,Hassan enjoys a flirtatious relationship with French sous chef Marguerite(Charlotte Le Bon, who played an early model and muse in the recent “Yves SaintLaurent” biopic). The script fromSteven Wright(who also wrote the fartrickier “Locke” from earlier this year, as well as “Dirty Pretty Things” and“Eastern Promises”) is full of such tidy parallels, as well as trite and overlysimplistic proclamations about how food inspires memories. Dayal and Le Bon do look lovelytogether, though, and share a light, enjoyable chemistry. Then again, it all looks lovely—both the French and Indiandishes as well as the lush, rolling surroundings, which we see through all fourseasons; the work of cinematographerLinus Sandgren, who recently shot “AmericanHustle.” This sweetly pleasing combination of ingredients would have been perfectly suitable if the film didn’t take a wild and needless detour in the third act.That’s when it becomes an even less interesting movie than it already was, in spite of its loftier aspirations. Advertisement