Certainly you don’t go to a “Step Up” movie for theglittering repartee. You go for the dazzling dance moves. But even by thestandards of this franchise—and this genre in general—“Step Up All In” ispretty laughable. If only there were a way you could fast-forward through allthe junk while sitting in the movie theater—the wooden delivery andbarely-there characterizations, the tedious exposition and contrived conflicts—and just get to the performances. But alas, one must endure banal dialogueand a flimsy plot in order to enjoy the gravity-defying, acrobaticextravaganzas. It’s enough to make you wish they’d called the movie “Step Upand Shut Up.” Advertisement Instead, the title of this fifth film in the series is asbland as the members of the competing dance crews that populate it. Perhapsthere’s some allure here for true devotees in that characters from previous installmentsreturn and collaborate, “Fast-and-Furious”-style. (Sadly,Channing Tatum—whobegan his rise to superstardom in the original “Step Up” back in 2006—isnowhere to be found. Then again, he has far better things to do these days.) Ifyou’re a newbie, you won’t be lost—this isn’t exactly aChristopher Nolanfilm in terms of narrative complexity—but you’ll probably be checking yourwatch as you wait for the next dance number to start. DirectorTrish Sie’s feature debut, with a script from JohnSwetnam, begins in lively fashion, though. Sean (the blankly handsome and hunkyRyan Guzman) and his pals in the dance crew The Mob work their butts off atcommercial auditions while wearing ridiculous costumes and incorporatingvarious products. It’s the dance-film version of a rom-com bad date montage.These are the performers who moved from Miami to Los Angeles after winning a spotin a high-profile Nike ad in the previous movie, 2012’s “Step Up Revolution," but now they’re finding that surviving as working dancers in L.A. is nearlyimpossible and decide to go back home—all except Sean. He discovers a VH1 competition called "The Vortex," which willgive one winning dance crew a three-year gig at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas.The host is the outlandish Alexxa Brava (the perky, Polish actress-dancerIzabella Miko), who clearly shops at the same boutique as Effie from “TheHunger Games.” She’s super dramatic in her delivery as she announces the teamsand the rules, but it’s hard to tell whether she’s going for over-the-topparody or run-of-the-mill Vegas cheese. Sean quickly assembles a new crew, including thegood-hearted Moose (series veteran Adam Sevani), who brings the group together;the stubborn Andie (the Demi Moore-esqueBriana Eviganfrom “Step Up 2: TheStreets”); and the daffy Jenny Kido (Mari Koda, another series regular), whoprovides broad comic relief. There are so many characters crammed in here,though, that it’s easy to forget that some of them even exist. Which is the guyfrom Baltimore and which is the one from the Bronx? Doesn’t matter, really, aslong as they hit their marks sharply. Advertisement And they do—they all do—in increasingly elaborate dancenumbers. An early dance-off at a bar opposite the rival crew the Grim Knightsis fun in an aggressive sort of way. The mad-scientist inspired performancethey concoct for their audition tape is a highlight (but please don’t troubleyour mind wondering how they got a hold of all those costumes and props andshot it all with multiple camera angles). But the big finale where the top four crews in thecompetition battle it out for world domination is a lengthy and thoroughlyenjoyable spectacle that makes all the preceding dreck worthwhile. It’s anawe-inspiring display of choreography, energy and athleticism. Naturally, thefinalists include Sean’s new crew, his old crew and the crew they both can’tstand, led by a sleazy Stephen "Stev-O" Jones. (This is not a spoiler. This isthe cosmically contrived way these things work out in movies like this,regardless of the kind of competition.) Will Andie get over her fear of injuring her knee again andpull off that big, climactic stunt? Will Sean ever be able to pay his rentagain? Will Sean and Andie kiss as knew they would from the first second they met,despite a complete lack of chemistry? And where did they get the flamingtorches for their climactic last dance? Shutting off your brain and putting onyour dancing shoes seems to be the only appropriate answer.