With great power comes great comedy. Well, sometimes. Writers have spent thehistory of film mining the concept of people without any discernible skillsets turned into figures of authority. And the last few yearshave seen a lot of comedy mileage in the subgenre of man-children broken out oftheir doldrums by living lives distinctly not their own (that was the draw of “TheHangover” and “Jump Street” movies—normal guys in abnormal situations). Intoboth of these comedy pools, we can now throw “Let’s Be Cops,” with TV starsJake JohnsonandDamon WayansJr. (both of FOX’s “New Girl”) as a pair ofaverage guys thrust into a life-changing dynamic when they pretend to be policeofficers. Advertisement The best of these movies contain enough edge to becautionary tales. Don’t be the party animals of “The Hangover” every weekend orrisk great bodily harm. The grass on the other side of the fence isn’t just aduller shade of green than we first expect but it’s laced with poison. There's no poison here. Despitea premise rife with potential dark humor, there’s too little edge in “Let’s BeCops.” Director/co-writerLuke Greenfieldchose wacky over witty and the resultis a film with no sense of danger, no reason to care and not enough laughs tomake the sitcomish handling of a strong premise forgivable. Ryan (Johnson) is a mostly out-of-work actor whose mostinfamous credit is a commercial for STD medication. He’s not in a very goodplace. Neither is Justin (Wayans), a video game developer who doesn’t quitehave the spine to stand up to his annoying boss (Jon Lajoie), who takes hishard work on a game about a police officer and turns it into Firefighters vs.Zombies. To research that game, Justin came into possession of a pair of legitimatepolice officer uniforms, and Ryan convinces his more uptight buddy that theyshould use them to attend a costume party reunion (that turns out to be more ofa masquerade ball, further embarrassing our heroes). Dejected after the reunionreminds them of their recent failures, Ryan and Justin are walking the streetsof L.A. when they realize that the uniform commands a certain kind of respectand admiration from the ladies. Why not be cops a little longer? Well, because it’s highly illegal and incredibly dangerous,of course. Justin realizes this and tries to put a stop to it but Ryan becomes relativelyunhinged, buying a cop car on eBay and pulling people over. And the pair evengets involved in a real case involving the gorgeous daughter of a restaurantowner (Nina Dobrev), who becomes a love interest for Justin, and a maniacalgang leader played with physical fury by James D’ Arcy.Rob Rigglepops up as a realcop who crosses paths with the two whileKeegan Michael Keysteals a few scenesas an over-the-top dealer. Advertisement Those early montages of Johnson and Wayans breaking out oftheir shells by donning the outfits that give them the confidence to do so havea great comedic energy. These are two talented actors, and it looks like “Let’sBe Cops” is going to give them a chance to really find an audience theydeserve with a breakout film. And then the film goes absolutely nowhere. To say that “Let’s Be Cops” spinsits wheels tonally would be kind. “Paul Blart: Mall Cop” had more edge. The cops of "Superbad" had more edge. WhereasJohnson seems ready to do something truly dark—his character’s increasing willingnessto push his false authority could have and should have sent this piece into “Observeand Report” levels of black humor—his writer/director doesn’t seem to want togo with him. Like so many sitcoms orAdam Sandlermovies, “Let’s Be Cops” doesn’ttake place in the real world. It’s a comedy universe without danger or repercussions.Worst of all, it simply doesn’t have the laughs to make the zany approach feel like the right one. Don’t be edgy, fine. But atleast be funny.