The founder of this site once said a very wise thing. Well,he actually said quite a few very wise things, but here’s one I go over andover pretty frequently: "There are two things you can't argue in film:comedy and eroticism. If something doesn't make you laugh, no one can tell youwhy it's funny, and it's difficult to reason someone out of an erection."That’s pretty funny in and of itself. Anyway, I’ve always respected RogerEbert’s rule of comedy, which he articulated differently in various pieces overthe course of his life, and which I distilled in my own mind as an instruction:If something’s funny, and you laugh at it a lot, you’ve gotta own it. (If you know me at all, you also know thatI’ve got a laugh that’s kind of hard not to own—when I lose it, it’s prettyloud. I think Fox Searchlight bought “Napoleon Dynamite” at Sundance partiallyin the strength of my reaction to the steak-throwing joke.) Advertisement So here’s the breakdown: I laughed like a maniac at theMichael-Caine-impersonation reprise performed by comic actorsSteve CooganandRob Brydonat the front end of “The Trip To Italy,” the followup (to call thisa sequel is kind of special pleading, really) to “The Trip.” The difference, bythe way, being that in the prior film—both are distilled from somewhat longertelevision mini-series-es broadcast in Great Britain—the fellows gallivantedaround the British countryside and in this picture they are in, you guessed it,Italy. To get back to the record, I also laughed like a maniac at the picturesend, in which Brydon and Coogan discuss various James Bonds in front of anappreciative audience of actors playing the publicist and teenage son of thecharacters played by Brydon and Coogan, who are lightly fictionalized versionsof themselves. And I laughed consistently and appreciatively at many of thescenes in between, some of which depict the actors singing along to an AlanisMorrissette CD. So if you go in for allusive British humor that buildsslowly from dry to uproarious, as executed by two absolute masters of the form,“The Trip To Italy” will work for you, I believe. I also think the film,directed, like the prior one, by the astuteMichael Winterbottom, is a somewhatsmoother trip than the first. In that one, Coogan, who’s better knowninternationally than Brydon, was the focus, and the movie’s plot, such as itwas, was hooked into his work and personal anxieties as he took a break fromhis Hollywood career just as it entered a pivotal moment. Here the focus is onBrydon, who gets a call from Hollywood, and also succumbs to a vacationflirtation that results in a pretty serious domestic misstep. Because the vieweris arguably less familiar with Brydon, the fiction is more convincing; we’respared the potential distraction of trying to separate and/or combine the“real” person from the character he’s playing. Which leaves us more focus forthe incredible-looking Italian meals the pair sample (these trips are foodiefodder for newspaper articles Brydon writes), and the impeccably deliveredbanter they exchange. It all looks scrumptious, which makes this movie aterribly refreshing one with which to close out the summer.