What happens when a society built on violent, dictatorialpower faces collapse? How do we deal with violent youths whom we cannotcontrol? How much freedom should we give those who we allow to shape ourchildren from boys to men?Vincent Grashaw’s SXSW drama “Coldwater” tries to dealwith these challenging questions in the form of a narrative about a juvenileboot camp, the kind of place that thinks violence and Army training techniquesare the way to deal with teens whose parents no longer have the answers. It’s apromising topic for a drama, and Grashaw’s talented leading man carries ituntil the filmmaker steals it from him and destroys everything built up in thefirst hour. The final act of “Coldwater” is horrendously misguided, the kind ofinsincere melodrama that erases the memory of what came before. It’s aparticular shame because there’s an hour of decent filmmaking here. Advertisement The title refers to a remote location at which parentsessentially give up the protective rights to their children and allow alphamales to form them into “better citizens.” These places exist, and, as the endcredits inform us, do so with little governmental oversight, leading toinjuries and even death. When your son has reached a point where bad behaviorbecomes violent and illegal, what do you do to keep him out of jail? It’s aserious question facing hundreds of families. Grashaw clearly believes that places like Coldwater are notthe answer. From the minute that Brad (P.J. Boudousqué) gets there, Coldwateris painted as a testosterone-heavy corner of Hell. The teens are forced to runmiles every day, given little water along the way, and that’s the highlight formany of them. Sprayed with fire hoses, strung up by their wrists and leftovernight, etc.—Colonel Frank (James C. Burns) seems to honestly believe thathis reform structure will turn boys to men but it’s a harrowing process to doso. And, perhaps worst of all, Frank has a system in which the “good kids”become Trustys and eventually employees of Coldwater, which naturallyencourages in-fighting among the barracks. When a friend of Brad’s named Jonas (the naturally talented OctaviusJ. Johnson) gets hit by a counselor-driven ATV on a run, Coldwater starts tofall apart. The incident brings in some authority figures and Colonel Frankbegins to sense that his days may be numbered. What happens when a mad manstarts to lose his control? You can imagine that it gets worse before it getsbetter. And when one of Brad’s old buddies (Chris Petrovski) comes toColdwater, it’s the match hitting a lake of gasoline. The majority of what works about “Coldwater” for its firsthour can be laid at the feet of Boudousqué, who looks like a youngRyan Goslingand has a bit of that actor’s remarkable internal gravity. The actor is allowedto essentially play multiple iterations of Brad, as we see flashbacks to whatgot the young man to Coldwater in the first place, watch the struggle of hisearly days, and end with a character who seems broken to the degree that onecould argue the Colonel’s strategy worked. He’s a shell of a man by the middleof the film, but he’s more of a man than a rebellious teen. There’s a daringfilm there—the idea that these facilities are breaking troubled teens down tothe point that they may be more “mature” but they’ve lost their identities in theprocess. Advertisement “Coldwater” is one of those films that we know can’tpossibly end well, and yet the final act feels unearned and manipulative. Thesubtlety of the performances in the first two acts are discarded for explosionsof violence and surprisingly tidy resolutions. Grashaw offers a climax in thetraditional sense of the word in that the film almost becomes an action movie,and strains credulity by taking that route. Instead of the character drama, “Coldwater”becomes something designed to provoke and thrill in the final act when itshould be finding the sad truth of troubled youths and people who abuse thepositions of power granted them. It’s as if Grashaw couldn’t stomach thethought that these kind of nightmarish situations often don’t have the closurethat filmmaking can provide. And, even though it makes for a disappointingfilm, who can really blame him?