Given the current state of international cinema, wheretitanic auteurs and formidable national cinemas in numerous countries largelybelong to the realm of memory, it’s understandable that some artisticallyambitious European directors would consciously refer back to what has beencalled the Golden Age of the Art Film (roughly the 1950s-'70s). Happily, theresult of such retrospective awareness can be both impressive and invigorating.Paolo Sorrentino’s “The Great Beauty” and PawelPawlikowski’s “Ida” are recent examples of films that look to cinemas past (ofItaly and Poland, respectively) for inspiration yet are so full of their ownpower, originality and conviction that they make what was old look new again.Notably, both movies were not only critical favorites but big hits at arthouses in the U.S. and elsewhere, suggesting that their appeal bridgedcinephiles who recall the models they invoke, younger viewers who don’t, andregular moviegoers looking for something more interesting than Hollywood’shackneyed fare. Advertisement The other side of this coin is represented by PhilippeGarrel’s “Jealousy.” Garrel, who has been making films for decades, is afavorite of highbrow critics in his native France, and his latest is touted ashis most accessible film ever. So is he poised for, at long last, his bigstateside breakthrough, as his coterie of U.S. admirers hopes? It’s hard toimagine he is, since “Jealousy” is the kind of slight, academic, self-satisfiedexercise that preaches only to the converted. Like every serious director to emerge from France since theearly ’70s, Garrel has had to deal with the legacy of the French New Wave, ofwhich he was just a bit too young to have been a part. Yet unlike Frenchdirectors who’ve justifiably achieved international renown since–from thelikes ofBertrand BlierandMaurice Pialatback when, toOlivier AssayasandArnaud Desplechinmore recently–he has remained an insular favorite, and“Jealousy” suggests that’s because he’s been content to operate within theboundaries left by the New Wave rather than push beyond them. There is, of course, a large element of self-contradictionin this. The New Wave became a global sensation and changed film history byoverthrowing an increasingly ossified set of cinematic conventions andestablishing its own, more vital ones. To operate in the movement’s realspirit, then, would be to “make it new” yet again, rather than to imitate whatwas new 50 years ago, as Garrel does. His bonds to the past are indicated by the fact that overhis career Garrel has worked with three cinematographers who became legendaryfor their work with the New Wave:Raoul Coutard, William Lubtchansky and WillyKurant. Kurant, who is 80, shot “Jealousy” in an elegant black and white(itself an indicative choice on Garrel’s part) that recalls Godard’s“Masculine/Feminine” and other films he shot a half-century ago. Indeed, watching “Jealousy” you get visual echoes not onlyof Godard’s work but also of canonical films by Truffaut, Rivette, Rohmer,Eustache and other directors. What you don’t get is any sense of an aestheticpost-dating 1972. Garrel’s strict allegiance to the stylistic tropes ofdecades past is matched by a similar penchant on the thematic level. Like azillion other French films, “Jealousy” concerns the travails of l’amour andcenters on a romantic trio of very attractive young people. The story beginswhen Louis (Louis Garrel) leaves his partner Clothilde (Rebecca Convenant) andtheir young daughter Charlotte (Olga Milshtein, whose performance is the film’sone breath of fresh air) to move in with his new love, Claudia (AnnaMouglalis). Both Louis and Claudia are actors, and impecunious, but he’s gotwork and she doesn’t. After spending some time with Claudia, it’s far easier toglean why no one will hire her than to understand why Louis doesn’t see thatshe’s a man-eater who’ll break his heart. Advertisement That last sentence perhaps should have been preceded by aspoiler alert, except that “Jealousy” is one of those films whose dramatic apexcan, like Mont Blanc, be spied from ten miles off. Louis betrays Charlotte andis eventually betrayed by Claudia, who’ll trade in one boyfriend for another ifit means a getting a bigger apartment (such are the cruelties of materialism,folks!). All of which seems as predictable and trite as it is obviously true tolife and sincere. As certain French critics began observing decades ago, thecharacteristic sin of French filmmakers is their over-reliance on naturalism,the sense that having things on the film’s surface (photography, the waycharacters are drawn, the performances embodying them) appear meticulouslylifelike is more important than having something profound or original to say.That’s certainly the case with “Jealousy.” Garrel may not tread a single inchof new territory thematically, but the film’s staging (most scenes are done ina single take), its descriptions of its characters’ behavior and the actors’performance are all accomplished with a steady, understated expertise. And yet some of the old phoniness partly overthrown by theNew Wave remains. Consider Louis Garrel, now making his fifth film with hisdad. Louis is perhaps the only French actor more notable for his hair than histalent. His hair is spectacular, a glorious thicket of dark, upward-swept curlsand tangles. It’s a mess so perfect, and Byronic, you can’t help but wonder howmuch time the hair-dresser spends on him before the camera rolls. There’s oneshot where Louis andAnna Mouglalisare facing each other, and both arebacklit, and the effect is so striking you almost regret there’s no Oscar forcoiffures. ForPhilippe Garrel, the film is a family affair in morethan one sense. As it happens, son Louis is playing a character based on hisown grandfather, who left Philippe’s mom for another woman. Perhaps making“Jealousy” thus comprised a bit of group therapy for the Garrels, and no doubtit would have been cheaper than psychoanalysis for all concerned. But like muchabout the film, these autobiographical elements will be of far greaterinterest to the director and his cult than to filmgoers at large. Advertisement