The late French filmmakerChris Marker, who died in 2012 atthe age of 91, was a pioneer of what some critics call the “essay film,” buthe’s best known for his (perhaps) entirely fictional short, the seminal 1962time-travel tale “La Jetée.” That less-than-a-half-hour movie is a massiveinfluence on almost every sci-fi piece on time-travel since, not to mention adirect, credited inspiration forTerry Gilliam’s visionary feature “TwelveMonkeys.”  He never made another filmlike it, at least directly like it. But every one of his nearly 60 other filmsare intimately tied to that masterpiece, because they are all about human perceptionand history and memory, and how they all warp our lives. Advertisement His 1997 movie “Level Five” is only now getting a release inthe United States, and it’s a fascinating hybrid. Shot with low-budgetequipment suited to a putatively rough-and-ready aesthetic, it’s a fictionaldocumentary examining the battle of Okinawa in World War II, a conflict that,by Marker’s lights, helped usher in the terrifying atomic age in which we stilllive. Marker’s other works, remarkable movies such as “A Grin Without A Cat” and“Sans soleil,” bracing, personally inflected treatments of historical studiesand anthropology, established the filmmaker as someone for whom the idea of“objective” history is thoroughly objectionable. So here he treats Okinawathrough a fictionally contrived premise: the labors of Laura (CatherineBelkhodja) a computer enthusiast and video game developer, as she tries todevelop a strategy game based on the battle—a cyber rewrite of history, in asense. Marker’s narrator lightly interrogates Laura, who keeps a video diary ofsorts, and teases the unseen filmmaker with personal reminiscences of theirrelationship, for instance, recollecting the first time they heard DavidRaksin’s musical theme toOtto Preminger’s film “Laura” together. “What’s that got to do with Okinawa?” you may well ask now,and I’m not sure the movie will give you a satisfactory answer. All of Marker’sphilosophical explorations are tinged, at the very least, by his own cinephilia(like many French filmmakers of his generation, he was active as a critic andin a sense remained so throughout his life), and for those who like theirprobings into historical trauma straight down the alley and digression-free,“Level Five” will be a very frustrating and arguably overly French experience.I say “French” because the movie partakes in a kind of discourse that’s verymuch in a French intellectual tradition, the discursive semiotic inquiry inwhich one’s own cast of mind is necessarily grist for the cerebral mill. Inother words, it’s Marker’s position that he cannot make a film “about” Okinawaeven if he and his cinematographer travel and shoot there (which they did); hecan only make a film about thinking about Okinawa. That being what this is, ifyou can hook into it, “Level Five” is not just witty, insinuating, andpenetrating; it’s also unexpectedly moving and, as deliberately threadbare asit often looks, cinematically rich. Its imagery derives directly from a timewhen computer graphics were so much cruder than they’ve become that it’s almostdifficult to believe. Laura’s interaction with protocols, mysteriousindividuals in user groups and chat rooms of the late ‘90s, underscores the waytechnology is constantly seeming to redefine epistemology; this makes “LevelFive” a kind of prophetic text in a way perhaps Marker himself didn’t evenanticipate. Is it a “masterpiece?” Who’s to say; but like every other filmMarker made, it’s an exemplary and resonant address on the life of the mind andthe life outside of that one.