“Life After Beth” gets into the well-tread zombie-comedyterritory in a clever and inspired way. Then it doesn’t get out of it nearly soskillfully. The feature debut from writer-directorJeff Baena, whoco-wrote the 2004 existential comedy “I Heart Huckabees” withDavid O. Russell,begins life as a surreal slow burn. Mopey, twenty-ish Zach (Dane DeHaan) ismourning the death of his girlfriend, Beth (Aubrey Plaza, Baena’s real-lifegirlfriend), who suffered a snakebite while hiking. Unable to let her go, hefinds solace by growing closer to her parents, Maury and Geenie (John C. ReillyandMolly Shannon)—showing up at her house, snuggling in her colorful knitscarf despite the summer heat and staying up all night playing chess (and sharinga joint) with her equally bereft dad. Advertisement Baena effectively conveys the fog from which Zach cannotextricate himself, and the disconnect from society that envelops and comfortshim. Zach’s own parents (Paul ReiserandCheryl Hines, in barely-there roles)are helpless and clueless; then again, they hardly even try. And his militantsecurity-guard brother (Matthew Gray Gubler) stridently urges him to snap outof it. But then, on one of his many visits to Beth’s house, Zachthinks he sees fleeting glimpses of her through the windows. And he’s right—because she isn’t really dead. She mighthave been at one point, but now she’s something else entirely. She looks likeBeth and sounds like Beth (for a while, at least) but now she listens to smoothjazz, worries about some vague test she needs to study for and spends way toomuch time up in the attic. These intriguing personality quirks initially form acentral mystery but end up going nowhere. Because as it turns out—and this isn’t a spoiler, folks—Beth is a straight-up zombie, but she doesn’t know she died in the first place,and her parents don’t want to upset the family’s renewed happiness by tellingher. This sets up a few instances of amusing, hectic comedy, but it’s one ofmany ideas in the movie that don’t feel fully fleshed out, if you’ll pardon theinadvertent pun. Baena poses a potentially mawkish question—what would youdo if you had a second chance at love—in an offbeat, unsentimental way. Andthat’s the most interesting element of “Life After Beth”: the way it causes usto wonder what state Beth’s in, exactly, whether she’ll be discovered and how farZach will go to rekindle their romance. In time, “Life After Beth” morphs from a dark comedy withsome glimmers of horror to a straight-up horror film with some glimmers ofhumor. It’s a tough transition to make.Edgar Wright’s brilliant “Shaun of theDead,” to which “Life After Beth” surely will draw comparisons, set thestandard for this sort of tonal shift. Beth’s zombiedom, however, leads to aninexplicable uprising of the undead, which ends just as quickly for whateverreason. Did she open some sort of portal? Does everyone think they’re in theMichael Jackson“Thriller” video? Similarly, Baena seems to have glossed overthe interior logic when it comes to Beth herself. Sometimes she’s predatory;sometimes she’s romantic. The tension should be building, but instead it justsort of shuffles along. Advertisement Zach, meanwhile, is defined exclusively by his grief. Who ishe? What does he want to be? What does he like to do? The character is entirelyreactive. DeHaan can have an unsettling presence, as he’s shown recently as thevillainous Harry Osborn in “The Amazing Spider-Man 2” and as the seductiveLucien Carr in “Kill Your Darlings.” Here, he just doesn’t get much of acharacter to play, despite being in every scene. Plaza seems game as she navigates a huge range, bothphysically and emotionally—from sweet and demure to confused and excited tounhinged and ravenous. She’s in the tricky spot of having to pull off some ofthe film’s more complicated combinations of instincts, as she sometimes must beadorable and terrifying at the same time. Her off-kilter appeal serves her wellhere. If only it were in the service of better material.