Back in2004,Catherine Breillat, the French filmmaker and author responsible for suchcinematic provocations as "Romance," "Fat Girl" and"Anatomy of Hell," suffered a massive cerebral hemorrhage thataffected her entire left side. After five months of hospitalizationand painful physical therapy, she recovered, and, in 2007, was ableto resume her directorial career with the powerful period piece "The LastMistress." That same year,she madethe acquaintance of notorious con man Christophe Rocancourt when shecontemplated casting him opposite model     Naomi Campbell    in a screen adaptationof her novel "Bad Love." That film would never be made, but over thenext 18 months, Breillat charged, Rocancourt would take advantage of herdiminished post-stroke capabilities by convincing her to give him a series of"loans" totaling over 800,000 euros. The courts would agree withBreillat, and, in 2012, Rocancourt would be put in prison for taking her money.Advertisement To becaught up in a situation like this would be an acute embarrassment for mostpeople—especially those of a prominent position—and many of them would go toextreme lengths to keep as much of a lid on it as possible. Breillat, to put itsimply, is not one of those people. In 2009, she wrote a book based on herexperience, and, with her latest film, "Abuse of Weakness," she offersup a lightly fictionalized take on the ordeal. This is not the first time thatBreillat has mined her own life and work for material—"Sex isComedy," for example, was a film about a director struggling to shoot agraphic sex scene inspired by her own difficulties in putting together asimilar sequence in "Fat Girl"—but this examination of power, greed,emotional manipulation and simple need is gripping and powerful tobehold even if you don't know the story behind the story. The filmopens with acclaimed filmmaker Maud Schoenberg (Isabelle Huppert) waking up inthe middle of the night to discover that she has no feeling in her left sidebefore collapsing on the floor while trying to summon help. After that comes awrenching series of scenes in which the once-proud Maud is forced to undergocountless gross physical impositions over the course of several months in orderto learn how to walk, talk and even laugh again. Despite nearly a year oftreatment and rehab, Maud's steely determination remains ("I've sunk likethe Titanic. But if I ever resurface, I'll be like an atomic bomb") andshe eventually begins planning a new film involving a sexualized power strugglebetween a rich and famous woman and the younger, poorer man that she becomesobsessed with, even after things between them become violent. It is atthis point that she wakes up in the middle of the night to see con man VilkoPiran (rapperKool Shen, a portrait of magnetic insolence) being interviewed ontelevision about his shady past—he brags about having bilked his victims outof more than $135 million—and is fascinated by his unrepentant demeanor.Against the advise of her friends, she decides to cast him in the lead role inher film and right from the start, he begins to insinuate himself in her lifein weird ways—during his very first visit to her place, he literally beginsclimbing up her bookshelves in a move that looks like nothing so much as ananimal marking its territory. She quickly falls under his spell and beforelong, he begins asking her for substantial loans—oh, he has more money than heknows what to do with but those creepy police make it impossible for him totouch it right now—which she bemusedly agrees to give him. Before long, shehas given over virtually all of her money and is gradually forced to come toterms with the enormity of what she has done or been coerced into doing. Advertisement Whilewatching "Abuse of Weakness," most moviegoers will no doubt bescratching their heads and wondering how a woman as obviously intelligent asMaud (and Breillat, by extension) could possibly fall for Vilko's machinations—rightfrom the start, he is rude and abrasive, and the various stories that he spinsin order to separate Maud from her money (including the idea that theyco-author a book, a move that somehow requires her to give him a substantial"advance") are not exactly the stuff of "House of Games." Alesser and more reductive film would have come up with some pat explanation forher behavior and painted Maud as nothing more than an innocent victim. AsBreillat knows all too well, there is no easy explanation for such actions, and,as the film progresses, she weaves a web of potential rationales—a certaindegree of loneliness and isolation in the wake of her terrible ordeal,bemusement at the idea that her movie idea is playing out before her very eyes,the delusion that she can somehow out-manipulate such a master manipulator—andleaves the audience to understand for themselves how things turned out the waythey did. She also makes the smart move of presenting Maud not simply as ahelpless victim but as a smart and resourceful (despite her loss of faculties)woman whose ultimate predicament is in no small part of her doing. And whobetter to portray the formidable but frail Maud than Isabelle Huppert, thatmost indomitable of French actresses in what is, amazingly enough, her firstcollaboration with Breillat. Having spent her illustrious career playing strongand sometimes manipulative women, she is the perfect choice for the role, and whatshe does here is extraordinary in the way that she conveys a woman whose outsidesense of bravado is now required to mask physical and emotional vulnerabilitiesthat she is not used to, and which she tries to compensate for in ultimatelydisastrous ways. She has three particular scenes here that are among the bestthat she has ever played—the opening sequence in which she suffers herhemorrhage in an agonizing but somehow understated manner, a moment towards theend where she watches Vilko lavish Christmas gifts on his wife and infant childwhile realizing that she has funded his largesse, and the powerful finale inwhich she attempts to explain to her incredulous family why she was compelledto give away virtually all her money to a known con man. Thoseexpecting the intense violence and/or transgressive sexuality of Breillat'searlier films may be disappointed at first to discover that "Abuse ofWeakness" is comparatively tame in both departments. That said, this is awork just as startling and potent as anything she has done to date—a powerfulexample of art being used to exorcise personal demons that is anchored by twostunning performances and some of the most gripping moments to be seen in anyfilm so far this year.