The convergence of insanity and creativity has long been afascinating source for fiction. So many of our most interesting creative voiceshave dealt with mental illness (certainly a subject in open discussion rightnow with the recent passing ofRobin Williams), and, whileLenny Abrahamson’s “Frank”has been billed as a wacky comedy about a guy with a fake head (which it partially is), it’s also adissection of this intersection, driven by a remarkably physical performance byMichael Fassbender. Can you be both creatively brilliant and normal? Can you bementally damaged and creative within that shattered worldview? And these questions aren’t overly highlighted ortreated preciously in “Frank,” a film that is always interesting, largelythanks to an entirely committed cast and a writer willing to play with themeslike a band improvising until it finds the right tune. There are a few off-key notesbut the melody finally comes together. Advertisement Jon (Domhnall Gleeson, son of Brendan) is a strugglingsongwriter who stumbles upon his breakthrough when he sees a member of the bandSoronpfrbs essentially trying to drown himself. Offering to the band’s managerDon (Scoot McNairy) that he could perhaps fill in on that night’s show, Jondoesn’t seem to take the warning that the shoes he’s filling could have becomewaterlogged by virtue of being in a band of crazy people. There’s Clara (MaggieGyllenhaal), the theremin player who aggressively hates Jon from minute one;Baraque (Francoise Civil) and Nana (Carla Azar), who don’t seem to speak Englishother than when it suits them; and, of course, there’s Frank (MichaelFassbender), the musical genius of a lead singer who happens to wear a giantpapier mache head. Why? Who knows? What’s underneath? Who knows? (AlthoughFrank will explain his facial expressions to you to make conversation easier).What must have happened to Frank to force him to shut out the outside world byhiding his window to it? The bulk of “Frank” takes place at a retreat at whichSoronpfrbs works to record new material. And works. And works. Songwritingoften takes a back seat to recording odd sounds, running through the woods,taking a dip in the hot tub and general forms of insanity. Frank does most of thewriting but it’s material that even alternative music fans would likelydismiss. Months and months of working on new music pushes Jon to question whathe’s doing there, especially after his savings begins to finance the retreatrental fees. And he asks such questions publicly, posting confessional andrehearsal videos on YouTube. Wouldn’t you know it, Soronpfrbs becomes somethingof a viral sensation and they’re asked to play SXSW. What could possibly gowrong? “Frank” is perfectly cast. Gleeson has the right balance ofeveryman and artist to convey Jon’s difficulty in being the most normal memberof a crazy band. At what point do you give up on artistic expression? When therest of your artists seem entirely unconcerned with your input? When they startphysically attacking each other? How about when your lead singer won’t take offhis fake head? Jon could have been a pure straight man—our portal into theinsane world of Frank—but Gleeson brings just the right degree of charm to therole to make him feel well-rounded without stealing focus from the titlecharacter or the action of the piece. Advertisement In the end, “Frank” is about Fassbender’s performance, onethat only gets richer as the film goes along. Hiding the most utilized tool ofan actor under an unexpressive mask forces Fassbender to express his character's arcin different ways. The physicality of a mentally troubled soul is evident eventhough we never see his face. Watch the way Fassbender uses his body in therecording scenes, as if it’s been electrified by the creative process. Andcarefully watch the way he responds to setbacks, as if his muscles are actuallyshrinking as he tries to hide deeper under his protective cover. It’s a greatperformance. There are some tonal imbalances in “Frank" (and I wish it had as much visual personality and quirkiness as its narrative), but that seems a bit appropriate for a band that’s a bit atonal anyway. Soronpfrbs sounds sometimes like Interpol,who sounded a lot like Joy Division, itself led by a deeply troubled young manwith undeniable creative depth. Can insanity, normalcy and creativity co-existin a successful artist? “Frank” offers a unique, funny, entertaining look at what proves to be an unanswerable question.