David Jung’s “The Possession of Michael King” starts with abelievable performance anchoring an intriguing premise: a skeptic sets out tomake a documentary disproving the existence of the devil, and, well, there’s nomovie if he succeeds. Sadly, shortly after its set-up is established, Jung’s film goesthrough all the machinations of a found footage possession film with about asmuch creative spark as an apathetic teen checking off a list in a film class that hehates. Loud noises, check. Shaky cam, check. Increasingly illogical plot,check. Innocents in danger, check. Check, check, boring check. “The Possessionof Michael King” becomes one of the most plodding, dull exercises in horror ina very long time. The most horrific moment for this viewer came when I checkedthe time on my screener to realize it was only about half over. Advertisement The true shame of “The Possession of Michael King” is thatall of the uninspired filmmaking obliterates a solid performance from ShaneJohnson as the title character, a bitter man turned against God for good by theloss of his wife, which has forced him to become a pretty inferior single fatherto his daughter Ellie (Ella Anderson). Michael decides to make a documentary—settingup the found footage format—about fringe religions, mostly those who bow toSatan. He starts by challenging a psychic (Dale Dickey) who advised his wife atone point and whom he now partially blames for her death. He speaks to a Priestabout exorcisms. Eventually, he ends up in a basement, on LSD, tied up in partof a Satanic ritual. Most of this first-act material with actual dialogue andcharacter works reasonably well. It’s when the titular possession kicks in thatthe movie literally goes to Hell. Michael starts to hear things, see things, know things thathe wouldn’t if something wasn’t seriously wrong with the state of his soul. Ofcourse, while there might be an interesting film in whether or not Michael isgoing crazy, that’s not this flick. We know from the black eyes and demonicvoices that Michael is in serious trouble, as are those around him. The firsttime I saw the family dog, I knew he was in for some bad luck. Why? I’ve seenpossession films. And anyone who has seen a possession film can dig out the clichésin this one like a Greatest Hits of the genre. What’s so depressing about fare like this is how creativelyuninspired it feels to see the same tricks pulled over and over again. Horror,true fear only comes from the unknown, the unexpected, the unexplained. There’s never amoment in “The Possession of Michael King” that isn’t telegraphed either by thefilm itself or from memories of a superior one. It is a work that mistakes loudfor scary and turns to camera tricks just to keep you awake. And I won’t evenget into how much it fails the Why Would Somebody Keep Filming Test of thefound footage sub-genre, one that seems to have exhausted most fans of thehorror flick, but even they will be surprised at the depths of its latestfailure. Advertisement