She’s only 17, but alreadyChloë Grace Moretzhas cementedher ability to play a wide variety of characters who are both girlish and wisebeyond their years, from the “Kick-Ass” movies to “Let Me In,” and even lastyear’s  “Carrie” remake. In “If I Stay,”based on the weepy young adult novel about a teenage girl trapped in anethereal realm who must choose between life and death, her grounded,naturalistic presence goes a long way toward making mushy material palatable. Moretz’s performance—and the easy chemistry she shares inflashbacks with co-starJamie Blackleyas her boyfriend—help fortify a storythat, for all its popularity, is rather maudlin and painfully awkward at times. Advertisement Granted, a lot of this stuff works better on the page. FansofGayle Forman’s best-selling novel will be happy to see that director R.J.Cutler and screenwriterShauna Crosshave stayed true to its back-and-forthstructure, and the small tweaks in details here and there are improvements.Cutler—making his narrative feature debut following documentaries includingthe “The September Issue,” about Vogue magazine editor Anna Wintour—keepsthings moving in brisk, efficient fashion. You get the sense in watching this that Cutler wanted tokeep the melodrama to a minimum, and indeed, “If I Stay” does feature somemoments of powerful understatement. Still, there was major sobbing andsnuffling in the audience at the screening I attended. As in this year’s otherdying-girl drama based on a popular YA novel, “The Fault in Our Stars,” theexpectation and release are crucial to the catharsis. It’s reliable andirresistible, and there is an audience for that sort of experience. And yet, the vision of Moretz’s character, Mia, hoveringover her own comatose body after a devastating car accident and runningfrantically through hospital corridors searching for answers just feels jarringand forced compared to the comfortable energy that exists elsewhere. Imagininga ghostly purgatory in your mind as you’re reading is one thing; seeing itdepicted literally on screen is something else entirely, and it’s clunky. “If I Stay” begins in happier times. Mia, a cello prodigywith dreams of attending Juilliard, is enjoying a snowy morning with her motherand father (Mireille EnosandJoshua Leonard), former rock ‘n’ rollers who’vetoned it down but maintained an irreverent sense of cool, and her youngerbrother, Teddy (Jakob Davies). Mia will go on to say later in the movie thatshe feels like a space alien in this family, with her quiet demeanor and loveof classical music. But her honest exchanges with her parents—particularlythe appealingly down-to-Earth Enos as her mother—are among the film’sstrongest moments. On their way to visit longtime friends and their new baby,the family’s car slams into an out-of-control vehicle on an icy Portland road. As emergency workers dash about treating the victims, Mia finds herselfwandering among them in a hazy, out-of-body experience. She quickly hops intoher own ambulance to the hospital and continues to follow herself from surgeryto the intensive care unit. As her earthly self clings to life, her mindwanders to the past, bringing us up to speed on who she is and how she gothere. Advertisement We see Mia and Blackley’s Adam fall in love over theirshared love of music, although as the lead singer and guitarist of a rock bandon the rise, his is a very different kind. The way in which they try to meeteach other halfway and understand one another’s tastes is sweet and playful.You can see the dreamy allure he holds, with his puppy-dog eyes and a front man’sedge. We see Mia passionately practicing her cello—Bach’s“Cello Suite No. 1 in G,” naturally, as much of a standard as The Ramones’ “IWanna Be Sedated,” which inspired Adam to pursue music at a tender age. We seeher give the performance of her young life at her audition for Juilliard. Andwe see her enjoying girl talk over coffee with her best friend, Kim (LianaLiberato, nicely underplaying the wisecracking sidekick role). Her life seems so rich and full and interesting—and herdilemma over whether to move across the country to pursue her dreams or stayhome for the safety of true love is so compelling—that the material thatconstitutes the flashbacks could have been a fine coming-of-age drama in and ofitself. But of course there is something of greater spiritual magnitude at playhere, complete with an extremely literal white light that beckons her to let goand follow it. Should she stay or should she go? It’s a musical questionAdam is probably more familiar with, but Mia’s answer is never in doubt.