At 77,George Takeiis as active in social media as the average teenager. Regardlessof whether you follow him on Twitter or friend him on Facebook, he is probablysomewhere in your social media feed right now. Someone you know has shared or retweetedsomething of his, either a humorous comment or an article link or one of thoseannoying, captioned picture internet memes that sometimes get people in trouble.Takei’s ability to become a constant fixture for a younger crowd while maintainingcult status for older generations is one of the topics discussed indirectorJennifer M. Kroot’s fun and informative “To Be Takei.” Advertisement “To BeTakei” is a conventional documentary, but by no means a bad one. The requisitetalking heads footage and media clips are assembled into a good narrative structureby Kroot and editor Bill Weber. The 94-minute running time moves briskly, and someof the details presented have an unexpected emotional heft. For those who onlyknow Takei as Sulu in the original Star Trek TV series and its movies,“To Be Takei” offers some startling details about the actor and activist. The firstthree or so minutes play like a preview for familiar George Takei details that thefilm will tackle later.Howard Sternappears to complain about shooting footagefor his announcer Takei’s documentary. The USS Enterprise makes a cartoonyentrance in the opening credits, beaming the Takei family down to Earth. Acommercial for Sony featuring Takei appears on his TV screen, culminating withthe ad’s pitchman uttering his well-known catchphrase, “Oh my.” And Takei laughs his famous laugh for thefirst of many times it will be heard in “To Be Takei.” “The name ofthis movie should be ‘George Takei: Normalcy’,” states Brad Takei, George’shusband and business partner. They are power-walking down their block, talkingand bickering like the old married couple that they are. Kroot’s cameramaintains an intimate, though safe, distance as the duo addresses themselves andus. Their relationship subscribes to the old adage that opposites attract.George is very laid back, and Brad is, according to George, “a lot morecautious and pessimistic.” “He’s anervous wreck, and he knows it,” says George. “I asked him why he’s with mewhen I make him so…nervous,” he continues with a laugh before pointing out howBrad’s organizational skills are an invaluable contribution to their businessrelationship. Footage of Brad in action, competently handling the minutiae ofhis celebrity husband’s event-filled days, compliment the more emotional,self-described “temper tantrums” we occasionally see onscreen. At autographsigning events and Star Trek conventions, Brad keeps the line moving, funnelingdetails to George before he speaks to the next fan. Advertisement Any mentionof the original "Star Trek" series is bound to be accompanied by an appearancefrom Captain Kirk himself,William Shatner. His interview with Kroot, alongwith footage of Takei roasting Shatner on Comedy Central reveal an antagonismbetween the two that has apparently lasted throughout three seasons of the TV show, six movies and five decades. Passing a billboard with an ad for Shatner’snow-defunct “S—t My Dad Says” TV series, Takei points out that Shatner’s “mouthis covered, as well it should be.” Though "StarTrek" plays a large role in “To Be Takei,” It’s not the film’s main focus. Whilethere are interviews with Walter “Chekhov” Koenig and a silver-haired Nichelle “Uhura”Nichols, this is less Trek-oriented than one might expect, though it is used asa jumping-off point for several other topics. Trek’s creator,Gene Roddenberry,hired Nichols and Takei to show a diversity onscreen that did not exist in1966. Takei’s Sulu, who would eventually become captain of his own ship in “StarTrek VI: The Undiscovered Country,” made an impression on viewers, especially those of Asian descent. ActorslikeJohn ChoandLea Salongaexplain how seeing an Asian person onscreen in apositive role influenced them. “To Be Takei”doesn’t shy away from contradictions in Takei’s long life and career. The film highlightsSulu, but it doesn’t ignore the more stereotypical characters George Takei wasadvised to play by his agents after NBC cancelled the original "Star Trek" series.There are cringe-inducing clips ofJerry Lewismovies and TV cop shows, andTakei appears onscreen to apologize for them. There is also audio of Takei’s firstappearance on Howard Stern’s show, where the now very active gay rightsactivist denies his homosexuality. Stating that he did it for career purposes,Takei connects his stereotypical acting roles with his days of being publiclycloseted. Rejecting both allowed him to present a totally positive and accuraterepresentation of himself in every venue in which he appeared. Advertisement “To Be Takei”also powerfully covers Takei’s childhood spent in a Japanese-American internment campduring World War II. Over footage of the camps, George narrates how his andother middle-class Asian immigrant families lost their farms and businesses whenFDR issued Executive Order 9066. Takei speaks of wounding his father deeply byblaming him for not standing up to the government. Takei channels his pain andregret into his current role in “Allegiance,” a musical/memory play about thecamps and the aftereffects they had on future generations. The day Iscreened this film, my RogerEbert.com colleague and friend Scott Jordan Harris—anactivist himself—penned a piece on a meme George Takei posted to his followers.The meme presented misinformation about the abilities of people who usedwheelchairs in an attempt to score laughs. Harris pointed out that the personin the picture didn’t deserve mockery because, for starters, somewheelchair-bound people can stand and/or walk short distances. After an initial“it’s only a joke”-style response, Takei issued a second one apologizing forthe meme, citing that he was unaware that not everyone in a wheelchair lackedmobility. He also spoke to the followers who vehemently claimed he didn’t haveto apologize to anyone, citing that, as an adult, he had the final say on hisacts of contrition. Social mediaapologies are practically a cottage industry nowadays, and they usually ringfalse as a result of appearing forced. The portrayal of George Takei in “To BeTakei” made me reconsider my usual cynicism about celebrity mea culpas, atleast in his case. Conventional documentary or not, I got something of positivevalue and insight out of “To Be Takei.”