One of the things I learned in watchingThomas Allen Harris’engrossing documentary “Through a Lens Darkly”: George Eastman, of EastmanKodak fame, served on the board of Booker T. Washington’s Tuskegee Instituteand in the late 19thcentury helped the school set up a photographyprogram. That initiative not only reflected black leaders’ longstanding beliefthat photography aided their cause, it also gave Washington the positive imageshe needed in taking the case of African-Americans to the world. Advertisement At the Paris Exposition of 1900, the educator, then the mostfamous African-American in the U.S., mounted an exhibit of photographs thatshowed black Americans as productive, educated citizens not unlike theirmiddle-class white counterparts. Surely the first such display many Europeanswould have seen, the show was a hit, and it constituted a potent retort tovarious exhibits by European powers that attempted to justify their colonialexploitation of Africa by showing Africans as naked, primitive savages needingthe “civilized” guidance of their white masters. It is difficult to cast our minds back to that time andimagine what it would have been like to see such wildly opposing exhibits, butthe exercise is instructive, and it’s only one of many occasions for suchcontemplation Harris’ film offers. Here, as in other cases, the imagesarticulate narratives and entire worldviews that stand in starkly dramaticcontrast to each other. Likewise, the film itself has a dual nature, even if both ofits aspects might be united under the heading “family album.” One aspect hasHarris pondering the importance of photography in the lives of his and other blackfamilies (his grandfather was an avid photographer who gave Harris his firstcamera when he was six) and the various purposes it served, from recordingfamily histories to helping with the often ambivalent task of reflecting onblackness itself. The film’s other aspect, inspired by the acclaimed book“Reflections in Black: Black Photographers from 1840-Present” by Deborah Willis(who served as one of the film’s producers), considers the history ofphotography of and by African-Americans as effectively comprising a kind offamily album of the culture. This chronicle produces countless fascinatingconnections and poses intriguing questions, e.g., was it entirely coincidentalthat the overthrow of slavery in the U.S. happened at the same time that thestill relatively new medium of photography was coming into widespread use? Advertisement Perhaps not. While the case against slavery before the CivilWar had largely been the province of the written word, by the time Union forcesswept through the South as the war raged, photographers who came in their wakerecorded the hideously despoiled flesh of whipped slaves, and these imageshelped explain to Northerners why it was just and necessary to mount a massivecampaign against the “peculiar institution.” After the war, newly freed blacks took control of their ownimages in two senses. Some learned the trade of photography and createdpictures of their communities and acquaintances. And any African-American for amodest fee could have photos made of oneself and loved ones that reflected thesubject’s own tastes in poses, attitudes, clothes and settings. The imagesHarris shows from this period are among the most entrancing in the film, astheir projections of self-confidence, personal vitality and style, and in manycases, newfound prosperity anticipate similar displays of exuberantAfrican-American pride following the civil rights victories a century later. As Harris shows, black leaders understood the importance ofsuch images from early on. That Frederick Douglass became one of the mostphotographed Americans of the 19thcentury surely testifies not justto his healthy self-regard but also an understanding of how instructive andinspiring these portraits could be to other blacks. Yet the photographic and other proof of black talent,aspiration and success prompted various kinds of push-back throughout the JimCrow era. Cartoons and advertising demeaning to blacks proliferated. D.W.Griffith’s horrendously racist “The Birth of a Nation,” American cinema’s firstblockbuster, inspired the resurrection of the Ku Klux Klan, which had beensuppressed during Reconstruction. Perhaps worst of all, the lynchings andpublic mutilations of blacks in different parts of the country inspired aghoulish mini-industry of postcards showing whites enjoying picnics andlaughing festively as blacks were hanged and burned in front of them. Such horrific images would be used to opposite effect duringthe civil rights era, however. At the funeral of brutally murdered teenagerEmmett Till, the boy’s mother insisted that his coffin be left open so thatphotographers could record his grotesquely mutilated face. Those images shockedthe nation and pointed toward years in which images of peaceful civil rightsprotestors being viciously attacked by racist Southern lawmen and mobs helped turnedthe tide of public opinion toward the overthrow of Jim Crow. Advertisement In telling this story and exploring its meanings, Harris’well-crafted film uses interviews with a number of historians and blackphotographers. But its greatest asset is the trove of photographs it marshals.Sometimes these are so striking and resonant that they almost overwhelm thecommentary meant to frame them, including Harris’ voice-over, whichoccasionally stretches for academic or poetic notes it doesn’t quite reach. Yetthe old saw about a picture being worth a thousand words indicates theextraordinary power of the images “Through a Lens Darkly” organizes sothoughtfully and compellingly.