From the very first shot, there’s tension humming underneaththe phenomenal “Starred Up” that only intensifies as the characters deepen. Theopening shot is shaky, reflecting both movement and the disorientation thatcomes with change. And the eyes of Jack O’Connell, a future star if ever I’veseen one, are tight and coiled, first looking down to gather his thoughts andthen glaring up at the unknown future of his destination. We see this young mangoing through the process of moving from juvenile care to being admitted to anadult prison, and it ends with his hands on his head and face. From there, in anew cell he’ll occupy for what feels like a long time, he does push-ups, hecrafts a shiv, he paces like a caged animal—all before a single line ofdialogue. DirectorDavid Mackenzietrusts his actor and O’Connell puts moreperformance up there on the screen in body language than most performers dowith an entire script. It’s almost ten minutes before he speaks (and even that,to be fair, is so heavily accented and mumbled that I’m not sure I could tellyou what he says), but we know Eric already through visual composition,physical performance, and the other tools that average films often ignore infavor of over-expository dialogue and false declarations of emotion. “StarredUp” is not an average film. Advertisement It’s hard to describe “Starred Up” without making it soundgeneric. It’s another prison drama, a genre that felt exhausted many, manyyears ago. And it’s another tale of a genetic predisposition for violence as wesoon learn that Eric’s father Neville (the greatBen Mendelsohnof “The PlaceBeyond the Pines” and “Animal Kingdom”) is in the same prison as his son.Neville first spies Eric across the yard and glares him down in the way adisappointed parent does before a beating. Eric has been thrown into an ultra-violent,alpha male world, and it’s not one where having your father around isnecessarily a good thing. Human connection, for both of these men, will proveto be a double-edged sword. In many ways, it’s a work about a father’s angerthat both protects and derails his son. Eric will have another father figure in his life, a grouptherapist named Oliver (Rupert Friend), who convinces the prison Governor (SamSpruell) to give the young man a chance at rehabilitation after a particularlyviolent incident. In group sessions that almost always end in outbursts andviolence, Oliver does his best to try a different parental tactic with Eric.There’s a defining scene in which Eric flouts authority by lighting up acigarette in group and Oliver tries discipline—verbal admonition andessentially putting the group in a “time out”—before Neville bursts in with thephysical response: “Problem is you’ve gotto come down on him full throttle; else it won’t register.” It’s corporalpunishment versus detention even in the prison system. The dynamic between abiological father and a father figure behind bars is fascinating; both men tryto protect him and both simply cannot in this kind of world. While all of that subtext makes “Starred Up” fascinating, itis primarily a character piece for the young Mr. O’Connell, an actor whoreminds one ofTom Hardyin “Bronson” or the early work ofRyan Goslingin hisfearlessness. There’s a scene early on in which Eric knows the guards arecoming for him. He races back to his cell, pours oil on the floor, and thendouses himself in the stuff too. It’ll make it harder to take him down. And hegrabs a couple of wooden planks for good measure. He’s not getting “out.” Theyhave nightsticks, helmets and shields. But he’ll do some damage on his waydown. “Starred Up” is a film about someone sliding out of society, and kicking,screaming and punching as he does so. And O’Connell captures that in a way thatso many more experienced, well-known actors would miss. It’s in the incrediblephysical balance between prison-earned toughness and youth. There’s just a hint of fear in O’Connell’seyes, reminding us that he was just a kid not that long ago. O’Connell’sperformance is matched but never upstaged by the increasingly fantastic BenMendelsohn, an even more blatantly conflicted blend of rage and familial concern,and Rupert Friend. Advertisement “Starred Up” is HEAVY with slang and accents. You won’tunderstand a third of it. But there’s so much going on in between the lines ofdialogue that you won’t care. We’ve seen many visually arresting films inrecent years and character studies are as common as film festivals, but it’sthe remarkable blend of the two here that makes “Starred Up” devastating. From Mackenzie’scamera choices—often tracking in one shot from relative calm like inmatesplaying ping pong to an outburst in the distance down the hall—to the sounddesign of clanking metal doors and distant cries, “Starred Up” is a technical achievementanchored by the clarity of character in O’Connell’s performance. It’sfantastic.