"LastWeekend" is a film that asks audiences to spend a long Labor Day weekendin the company of a supremely dysfunctional family given to trading barbs witheach other at the drop of a hat and the unfortunate collection of guests andacquaintances that they have invited along to bear witness to the misery. Sincethis is something that most people can get for free on their own, what couldpossibly induce them into forking over the price of a ticket to experiencevicariously? Alas, the movie never gets around to answering that question, orany others of note, and as a result, anyone who does bother to show up willfind themselves bearing witness to unpleasant people doing and sayingunpleasant things to each other while hoping in vain that the two guys from"Funny Games" will show up hoping to borrow a couple of eggs. Advertisement As thefilm opens, Celia Green (Patricia Clarkson) and her husband, fitness centermagnate Malcolm (Chris Mulkey), are at their opulent Lake Tahoe vacation homeawaiting the arrival of their two sons to see out the end of summer. First toarrive is older son Theo (Zachary Booth), a television writer with cinematicambitions who comes with an entourage that includes his boss (Rutina Wesley),who he has given his screenplay to read, her husband (Fran Kranz), the star ofhis show (Jayma Mays) and, seemingly almost as an afterthought, his newboyfriend Luke (Devon Graye). Following close behind is younger brother Roger(Joseph Cross), who arrives with a big secret—he has just been fired from hisfinancial firm after losing them $30 million because of a simple typo—andgirlfriend Vanessa (Alexia Rasmussen), who yearns to place her boutiqueflavored waters in Malcolm's gyms and despairs of ever landing in the goodgraces of the exacting Celia. Rightfrom the get-go, the weekend is pretty much a disaster. For starters, Celia andMalcolm are considering selling the home—one of their two vacation homes—butdo not know how to break it to the kids. Both sons have hardly arrived beforesnapping at Celia, though she is quick to be dismissive of practically anyonewith the misfortune to get into her eye-line. Luke has a serious allergicreaction at their first dinner together and Celia does not distinguish herselfwhen she asks whether using the EpiPen is absolutely necessary because of thecost—this coming from someone who apparently refuses to buy anything that doesnot include some form of ecologically-minded surcharge. The next day, theGreen's loyal caretaker (Julio Oscar Mechoso) is electrocuted and rushed off tothe hospital with his cook wife (Julie Carmen). Add in the usual squabbles,misunderstandings and revelations and most people will find themselves thinkingthat by comparison, Fredo Corleone got off relatively easy during his lastvisit to Tahoe. "LastWeekend" is such a stridently unpleasant experience that it almost feelsat times as though screenwriter Tom Dolby (no relation to the singer who onceillustrated the pleasures and perils of being blinded by science) has actuallywritten an extremely poker-faced satire of that cinematic subgenre featuringwell-to-do dysfunctional families ripping into each other over the holidaysbefore finally Coming to Terms with Things. If nothing else, this would explainsome of the more obnoxious and clueless moves by the characters, such as theaforementioned EpiPen incident or the moment when they sneer at their neighborsfor being nouveau riche clowns because they made their fortune in airconditioning instead of something more hallowed and traditional like fitnesscenter franchising. As it turns out, it seems that not only does Dolby intendthe material to be taken relatively seriously—yes, even the scene where Celiahas a cathartic breakthrough when she washes some dirty dishes all byherself—but he wants us to somehow empathize with the characters and theirelevated sense of ennui. The problem is that while he can illustrate hatefulself-absorption handily enough on the surface, he betrays no idea or interestas to what makes such people tick, and, as a result, scene after scene justcollapses under the weight of its own unpleasantness. Advertisement While thescreenplay may be lacking in anything resembling insight, it is certainly top-heavyin regards to characters—besides all those already mentioned, there are also atrio of neighbors played by Judith Light,Mary Kay PlaceandSheila Kelleywhopop up whenever some exposition needs to be clumsily deployed—and subplots,almost all of which are introduced and then largely left unresolved. The largecast of actors are good at playing singularly obnoxious and self-centeredcharacters, but mostly clueless when it comes to making them into people worthtaking even the slightest interest in. As for co-directors Dolby and TomWilliams, they go about their jobs in the most indistinct mannerpossible—there is not one interesting cinematic moment to be had here and theysomehow even manage to contrive to make a Tahoe sunset come across as nothingparticularly impressive. Seeminglymade for film festivals that you have never heard of and cable stations youdon't recall ordering, "Last Weekend" has exactly two assets thatrescue it from complete uselessness. One is the presence of the usually wonderfulPatricia Clarkson in a rare lead role as Celia. While she cannotquite save it, she has a couple of scenes where she comes very close to bustingthrough Dolby's triteness in order to make her character into a recognizablehuman being. The other is the vacation house itself, an architectural marvelthat is more expressive than most of the dialogue. If it looks familiar, it maybe because, as I have learned, the house was previously featured prominently inthe film version of "A Place in the Sun." While it is nice to see aveteran making along-awaited return tothe big screen, here is hoping that next time around, the house holds out for abetter script.