Yasuhiro Yoshiura’s “Patema Inverted” mines a lot ofentertainment value and social allegory from a pretty great concept despitebeing held back from greatness by a clunky narrative. When the wonder of itspremise and perilous journey of its protagonists take center stage, Yoshiura’sfilm resonates with the fantastic visions that we’ve come to hope for in the best Japaneseanimation. When the flat character design, two-dimensional villains, andunengaging narrative counter-act that, it falls flat. Like its two leadcharacters, it is of two worlds. Advertisement A clear Fukushima allegory, “Patema Inverted” takes placeafter a freak accident, spurned by men trying to experiment with Mother Nature,essentially eliminates gravity for a large percentage of the world. People, buildings,foliage—all of it sent spinning above the clouds. Where did these people go? Did they spin off into space? No one knows, but a select few survivors makeit underground where they form a new society and future generations don’t evenknow about the surface of the planet.Patema is one of these undergroundsurvivors who “falls up” back to Earth, only to find that not everyoneascended. A society has formed that proclaims that the sinners were taken tothe sky, leaving only a dictatorial regime on the planet. They encourage their young people to become "citizens," stop dreaming and looking to the clouds or risk being sucked up by them. Here, Patema meets Age,Romeo to her Juliet, and the two discover that they can essentially fly if theyhold on tight to each other, one’s gravital pull balancing the other’s. Theytry to stay together despite a world that literally can’t put them on the sameplane. When Patema and Age are exploring the new limitations oftheir world, the movie works. It is a beautiful allegory for love and progress—seeingthe very environment that surrounds you from a new axis. Age and Patema havebeen fed lies their entire life and the connection they find leads to discovery.They have moments together in which “Patema Inverted” approaches true beauty. Sadly, there’s a lot of material around that core dynamicthat feels flat, especially the villains, who never engage as a true threat. “PatemaInverted” could have been a really strong action movie—there are beats in thefinal act that approach that—but the narrative wasn’t developed right,alternating between tones and styles too drastically to be effective. To beblunt, most of the “action” of the piece left me bored. I was far moreintrigued by the small beats: the widened eyes of two people finding eachother, the shots of the universe that Yoshiura has designed, etc. It’s thestorytelling that doesn’t have the impact beyond the concept and it's a testament to the strength of that core idea that the film still connects as often as it does.Advertisement