Colorful elements of “Fargo” and “Seven” blend into a blandbeige in the mostly straight-to-video “The Calling,” a piece that almostmiraculously finds a way to waste the prodigious talents ofSusan Sarandon,Ellen Burstyn, andDonald Sutherland. A serial killer that isn’t interesting, aflat attempt at procedural, all the atmosphere of an episode of a bad TV drama,and nary a performance that the actor or actress would like you to remembercome tomorrow—“The Calling” is a depressingly bad movie, the kind of film thatleads to sympathy for those involved if you can get past the anger of havingwasted your time and money on it. Advertisement Detective Hazel Micallef (Susan Sarandon) barely polices thesleepy town of Fort Dundas. The small Canadian burg doesn’t need much policework and so the fact that the wickedness of age and alcoholism are eating awayat Hazel’s stamina doesn’t impact her day job much. Along with fellow smalltown cop Ray Green (Gil Bellows), she can get the job done. In fact, there maynot even be much for the new officer Ben Wingate (Topher Grace) to do on aday-to-day basis. Of course, all of this changes when Hazel finds the body ofa local friend from church sitting in a living room chair without a head that’scompletely attached. Her throat has been nearly severed completely and hermouth has been painstakingly put into an artificial scream, a technique that we’reinformed would take about an hour post-mortem as the killer holds the mouthopen and waits for rigor mortis to set in. Creepy, right? Things get even moredisturbing when someone else, in another jurisdiction but not too far for Hazelto notice, ends up with part of their stomach removed the hard way. There’s aserial killer in Canada. Can Hazel and new guy Ben get to the bottom of it? It’s no spoiler to tell you who the serial killer is becausedirectorJason Stonesets up “The Calling” more as a cat-and-mouse game than amystery (one of many miscalculations). And so, early on, we meet Simon(Christopher Heyerdahl), a man in a long black coat with a bag that portendsevil to come. Simon is a soft-spoken and yet notably creepy tall gentleman, whoseems to want to help, such as with the sick daughter of a waitress he meets,but the film telegraphs his malevolence with every exaggerated framing orunderlining score. Hazel and Ben follow Simon’s path of destruction while we learn of theserial killer’s religious motives and hope to God that the film has a surpriseor two up its sleeve. Spoiler: it doesn’t. Sarandon, at first, seems to be sketching a lived-incharacter, someone exhausted by life and just looking for a place to put herfeet up, pour a drink, and read a book. She’s well-cast for a role like thatbut “The Calling” never lets her develop a character, pushing her into athriller plotline that even she appears bored by. Ellen Burstyn pops up as hermother, which should be amazing given the talent of these two actresses, andthe resulting scenes prove that even the most remarkable casts can’t savelackluster scripts and leaden direction. Donald Sutherland appears in not onebut two scenes to explain the plot. I’m not kidding. They were probablystoryboarded as “Donald Sutherland Explains the Movie.” To be fair, there are a couple of sinister beats, such aswhen Ben approaches a camper that we can just sense is going to house a wholebunch of ugly, that work in the simplest of thriller terms. And the cast, asthey often do in failures like this, will walk away clean and move on to thenext project. You should just skip this one and join them. Advertisement