The late greatElmore Leonard, on whose novel “The Switch”this movie is based, gets an executive producer credit on the movie. It’ssignificant, perhaps, that said credit doesn’t appear until after the movie’splayed out. Shows a certain confidence on the part of the other filmmakers:they didn’t feel the need to stack the deck with an emblem of Leonard’sapproval at the film’s onset. It turns out, the confidence was warranted: “Lifeof Crime” is a pretty engaging, and pretty authentically Leonardesque, comediccrime movie. While it doesn’t hit the highs of the very best movies based onthe author’s works—those would beSteven Soderbergh’s “Out of Sight” andQuentin Tarantino’s “Jackie Brown,” two outstanding examples of Americannarrative cinema of the ‘90s—it’s also far less slick and ingratiating than thewatchable but very Hollywood-processed likes of “Get Shorty” and “Be Cool.” Advertisement The assets of “Life Of Crime” include a relatively credible1978 Detroit setting, a generous array of seamy characters with seamyaspirations (and interesting ways of talking), and a pretty first-rate castplaying those characters.John Hawkesand the performer usually known as MosDef, here going by the name Yasiin Bey (no, I don’t know why) are the criminalsLouis and Ordell, and yes, these are the same characters who turn up in “RumPunch,” which was the novel on which “Jackie Brown” is based. For the purposesof this story, both of these bad guys are a little less…awful than they are inTarantino’s film. Point of fact, they’re kind of likable, especially Louis.He’s first seen being talked into a kidnapping scheme by Bey’s Ordell, whosubsequently proves his get-the-criminal-job-done bonafides by facing down anobstreperous pimp. Ordell’s scheme is to kidnap the wife of a corrupt localbusinessman, and demand as ransom the money he’s been secretly stashing down ina tax-shelter bank in the Bahamas. There are already a lot of holes in thisscheme to begin with—Leonard’s crooks are rarely the brightest bulbs on theChristmas tree—but the biggest comes to light after the pair kidnap thedisillusioned wife, Mickey, and stash her in the home of an accomplice who’s aNazi gun nut. That is, Mickey’s husband, stiff-necked drunkard and all-aroundunpleasant fellow Frank, isn’t all that interested in getting his wife back.And he’s also got a little girlfriend at his Caribbean love nest, and she seesan opportunity in Mickey’s misfortune. Before I got off on the plot synopsis I was praising thecast, and of course Hawkes and to a lesser degree the artist formerly known asMos Defare reliable screen goods. As areTim Robbinsas Frank (a rolethat would have looked tailor-made for Christopher MacDonald 20 years ago),Isla Fisheras Frank’s, um, little chippie,Mark BooneJunior as the Nazi gunnut, andWill Forteas a social peer of the unhappy couple who’s got a weird thingfor Mickey. The big surprise here is Aniston, who gives one of her best if notbest ever movie performances here. Although she’s the female lead, she really letsherself melt into the ensemble, and I don’t know if it’s the part or if she’sreally upped her acting game, but her performance is measured, engrossing, andempathy-generating without any overtstriving, cutesy stuff, or sitcom-style tics. She actually develops quite arapport with Hawkes, not a fellow you expect her to mix with either incharacter or not. The amusing twists and turns of the script, the multipleinstances of bracing humor and consistent tension, help the cast bring thissmall-scale thriller to the place it clearly wants to be. Well worth seeing,particularly for Leonard people.