Pascale Ferran’s “Bird People” contains two complementarydramas within its unique structure; neither of them completely work. Whilethere are some phenomenal twists of the narrative knife in this unique story ofa flier who grounds himself and an earthbound woman who takes flight, “BirdPeople” also includes wildly aggravating tonal and pacing issues. It’s a filmabout jumping into the void, taking that risk that we have all consideredtaking at one point or another in our lives. We all reach moments in ourexistence where we’re tempted to just take flight, leave the world behind.Family, friends and obligations usually keep us from doing so, but the urge toleave it all behind never fully disappears. Advertisement Gary (the always-goodJosh Charles, who reportedly got thispart through his fantastic work on “In Treatment”) is the man who jumps intothat void when he decides, after a few dull business meetings, that he’s notleaving Paris. He’s not going on to his next meeting in Dubai. He’s notreturning home to the States. He’s quitting his job. He’s leaving his wife andfamily. And he’s not even sure what he’s doing next or where he’s going next. Garycalls his co-workers and breaks the news. And he has an emotional, devastatingconversation with his wife (Radha Mitchell) via Skype. In detailed, heartbreaking beats, we watch a man tell his partner that he won’t be coming home. Sure, there’san implication of love lost between the two of them a long time ago, but it’sstill hard to fathom a man leaving so much responsibility behind him like anunused plane ticket. After Gary’s life has been disassembled to the point that he’sfree from all tethers, a maid named Audrey (Anaïs Demoustier) similarly throwsoff her traditional structure in a way that I won’t spoil (but the titlecertainly hints at it). The second half of “Bird People” replaces the realismof the first half with fantasy elements that thematically complement the first.This is a film about people breaking free, and when they realize that commonsubtext to their lives at the end of the story, it has some undeniable thematicresonance. However, it takes WAY too long to get there. Ferran is proneto “flights of fancy,” pardon the pun, as some scenes in her film go on unchecked while others aren’t allowed nearly the right amount of time to develop.The scene in which Gary officially breaks his marriage is interminable, withlong silences and what sound like improvised emotional beats. I’m sure onecould argue that this enhances the realism of the scene, but that doesn’t makeit entertaining. And the key fantasy sequence in the movie is one that I neverthought would end. There’s a much stronger, tighter, captivating version of “BirdPeople” buried in this bloated take on a unique story. “Bird People” is a movie for which it’s tempting to makeexcuses. I like Charles’ work here. As he was on “The Good Wife,” he’s socompletely in the moment. He doesn’t overplay beats, and I hope he soon gets apart that really takes him to the next level in terms of internationalattention. Demoustier is a charming young actress. And there are clearlyinteresting ideas taking flight here. It’s the execution of the flight planthat keeps them from reaching their destination. Advertisement