"No Good Deed" inspired controversy in certain circleswhen Screen Gems, the studio releasing it, decided to scrap all of its previouslyannounced advanced press and word-of-mouth screenings at almost literally thelast second. When pressed for a reason, they explained that there was a plottwist so crucial that they wantedaudiences to experience it for themselves, without having critics ruin it for themahead of time. As rationales go, this one is hard to swallow, butconsidering just how preposterous the film as a whole is, it seems of a piece. Advertisement IdrisElba stars asColin Evans. As the story begins, he's up for paroleafter spending five years in prison in Knoxville for killing a man in a barfight gone bad. Speaking before the parole board, he offers himself up as achanged man—he has even begun programs behind bars that the governor plans on instituting throughout the state—but his efforts are thwarted by a pesky board member who has the nerve to bring up the five women that heallegedly murdered, though no tangible proof could be uncovered, and thenarcissistic personality disorder that puts him up there with the likesof Jeffrey Dahmer. This understandably bums him out, and, on the return trip toprison, he murders the guards transporting him and escapes, stopping along theway to brutally beat his apparently faithless girlfriend to death in an uglysequence that is flashed back upon throughout the film. (I wouldn't dreamof suggesting that the real reason behind the scrapping of screenings mightbe because of squeamishness over having to promote a film,during this particular week, in which a man savagely beats his girlfriend—but if youwould like to, I won't stop you.) Trying todrive through a terrible storm to freedom, Colin wrecks his car and turns up on the doorstep of Terri (Taraji P. Henson), a former hotshotprosecutor (specializing in cases involving violence against women, naturally). Terri is now a stay-at-home mom who frets that her husband (Henry Simmons) is nolonger interested in her. Sure, the husband is out of town on a golfing trip,and, sure, it is just her and her two young children by themselves, but when thisstranger rings her doorbell asking to use her phone, Terri sees nothing wrongwith inviting him in, letting him make himself at home, and even gazing at himadoringly when she sees him changing his shirt. However, before the film canturn into a late-'80s Heart video, Colin reveals his truecolors, and "No Good Deed" turns into what can only grudgingly be considered a game of cat and mouse. "No Good Deed" might have chosen to develop its story in a manner that respects the intelligenceof its viewers, by offering them ingenious twists on a familiar theme whilealways playing fair with them. It chooses instead to drag out the usual cliches in amanner so lazy as to display contempt for anyone foolish enough to pay to see the result. After about sixteen seconds of screen time, itbecomes painfully evident that directorSam Millerand screenwriterAimee Lagoshave made a home invasion thriller that isn't so much"The Desperate Hours" as it is simply desperate. In order to keep theflimsy narrative going, both allegedly brilliant characters are forced to act stupidly. When even that isn't enough to help move thingsalong, Lagos has to awkwardly insert a number of painful contrivances—a storm that is able to disguise or reveal incriminating sounds asrequired, a hot-to-trot neighbor (Leslie Bibb) who serves the same purpose herethatScatman Crothersdid in "The Shining" (though she neglects tobring a snowplow with her) and a car alarm that miraculously knowsexactly when to trip itself. The onlything missing here is a cat jumping out of the shadows every so often. Maybethe cat demanded script approval. Advertisement The only startling thing about "No Good Deed" is the fact that actors as talented asIdris Elbaand Taraji P.Henson decided to sign on for a project that plays like a failed attempt at aLifetime movie. Elba, of course, has been venerated in many quarters for hiswork on "The Wire," and Henson has proven herself adelightful presence in films like "Hustle & Flow" and "TheCurious Case of Benjamin Button." To see them trying and ultimatelyfailing to breathe life into these cliches is depressing. I guess Ishould mention that towards the end of "No Good Deed," there issomething that could technically be considered a shocking plot twist. However,in this particular case, the twist is so absurd, so arbitrary, and has so littleeffect on the proceedings that it feels like the kind of thing thatTyler Perrymight have scratched for being too ridiculous. For therecord, there is an excellent 2002 film by the name of "No GoodDeed," a nifty film noir that was directed by the greatBob Rafelsonandco-starredSamuel L. JacksonandMilla Jovovich. This was a thriller that wassmartly conceived, wonderfully executed and filled with strong performances(anyone requiring additional proof that Jovovich is more than just a prettyface is advised to check it out), and it always played fair withviewers as it unfolded its twisty narrative. That the 2002 "No Good Deed" has no relation to this one is another element in its favor.