Leigh Janiak’s SXSW Film Festival horror hit “Honeymoon”belongs to a long line of films about people who may not know enough about therecent object of their admiration. Great horror movies have been built aroundthe concept of protector as betrayer as people like Rosemary’s husband workedwith the devil to destroy her baby. You may have married the perfect guy butdid youreallyknow him? It’s arelatable core concept for genre filmmaking—the fear that arises from thesuggestion that the person sleeping next to you is not what he or she purportsto be. For the most part, these thrillers and horror films are built around themale aggressor: a husband or boyfriend with a lethal secret. Janiak’s“Honeymoon” cleverly turns the gender table, making the lovely bride the onewith something to hide. I wish the film withheld more information from itsaudience to raise the overall tension but it’s a solid genre pic, made soprimarily by two entirely committed performances from its talented leads. AdvertisementRose LeslieandHarry Treadawayplay Bea and Paul,respectively. They’re beautiful, have great chemistry, and seem destined tohave a lovely honeymoon in a remote cabin home. They can hike the woods, say hito the locals and get the privacy newlyweds need to start their life together.Paul is kind, Bea is joyful—they’re bound to find happiness, right? It’s amovie called “Honeymoon,” what could go wrong? The first sign of bad things to come pops up with eerielights in the middle of the night. Then, our lovely couple has a “BodySnatchers”-esque encounter with a couple in town. Something doesn’t seem rightin these eerie woods. Before you know it, Bea has gone sleepwalking, and comeback a little, well, different. There are marks on her body that can’t beexplained, and, most effectively of all, she doesn’t seem to be completelycognizant of Bea’s identity, or even normal human behavior. She doesn’t knowhow to make French toast. She can’t make coffee. Phrases are off and details oftheir history together seem fuzzy. And the lustful woman who came to the cabinhas been replaced by someone who denies sex regularly. What the Hell is goingon? The film’s biggest flaw is that we knowexactlywhat’s going on. The lights in the woods, theinconsistencies in human behavior—film history has taught us that Bea is not exactlywho she used to be. I wish Janiak had let the relationship drama play out a bitlonger. If “Honeymoon” had been a film in which we question Paul’s sanity asmuch as Bea’s personality change, it would have been even stronger. What if Beawasn’t actually “different” but just a moody, inconsistent new bride? What if “Honeymoon”had kept more of its secrets until the final act? Because Janiak didn’t make that decision, there are plotelements of “Honeymoon” that play out rather predictably. Having said that, it’san enjoyable, well-made predictability. Janiak knows how to deal with the tonalshifts of the production and Leslie and Treadaway are both quite good here,appearing in basically every scene of a two-character, one-setting piece. Inparticular, Leslie has to go deliver on a lot of physically challenging momentsand she’s excellent at conveying the reality of a terrifying situation. You cansee the old Bea in the new Bea, which is the most terrifying aspect of “Honeymoon”overall. It’s not the massive changes that happen to our loved ones that scareus, but the slow realization that something’s just not quite right. At itsbest, “Honeymoon” transcends genre filmmaking to capture something to which wecan all relate: that moment when you know something’s wrong in yourrelationship. Advertisement