"The Guest" announces its intentions and style in the short opening  sequence. There's a close-up of a guy, shot from behind, running down an  empty road through a desert. He's wearing heavy military-style boots.  We don't see his face. Suddenly, with a blast of terrifying music, the  title screen comes, huge purple letters on a black background. The next  shot, accompanied by another alarming blare of scary music, shows a  horrifying-looking scarecrow, lording it over the desert landscape. In  three shots, directorAdam Wingardannounces what "The Guest" will be  all about, tells us what the filmis. The opening  locates us easily and confidently in space, time, mood, and genre. "The  Guest" delivers on that initial promise. Advertisement David ("Downton Abbey"'sDan Stevens) shows up unexpectedly on the  doorstep of the Peterson family, made up of parents (Sheila KelleyandLeland Orser), a teenage daughter named Anna (Maika Monroein a  fantastic performance) and grade-school-age son Luke (Brendan Meyer).  David announces himself at the door, quietly and politely, with his  gentle Kentucky accent, as a friend of their eldest son who had been  killed in combat. The Petersons, still reeling from grief, let the  stranger in. He is intense, but submissive, speaking quietly to each  family member, providing them with positive memories of their fallen  son, and within 24 hours he has been invited to move into the dead son's  old room. On the surface, David presents himself as an old-fashioned guy, with good  manners, eager to make himself useful to the grieving family. It is the  least he can do for his dead friend. He becomes a protector to young  Luke against the bullies at the boy's school, and Anna, fighting with her  own suspicions about this new "guest," can't help but take notice of the  guy's blazing baby-blues and phenomenal body, glimpsed wrapped in a  towel in the hallway after his shower. The audience can sense immediately that David is not the lost lamb he  pretends to be; the opening sequence alone has already clued us in. But  "The Guest" takes its time revealing what is really going on, and has a  lot of fun in that slow reveal process. Director Wingard and his regular screenwriter collaboratorSimon Barrettare interested in genre mash-ups and the dramatic possibilities of  comedy-horror, as evidenced by their previous full-length feature  "You're Next." "The Guest" goes even further in that direction. The  music (bySteve Moore) suddenly blasts throughout, with moments of  pulsing techno unease, as Anna, crouched in her bedroom decorated with  Goth-Girl skull-and-crossbones, desperately tries to figure out more  about the hot interloper, now sleeping in the room next door. Advertisement Thomas Hammock's production design adds to the camp flavor of "The  Guest", sometimes tipping over into blatant parody. The film takes place  in the weeks leading up to Halloween, and therefore the screen is  filled with Halloween decorations crowding in on every single scene from  the walls, the ceilings, the counter-tops. Even in quiet safe moments  sitting around the kitchen table, sharing tender memories, the  characters are leered at on all sides by jack-o-lanterns and black cats  and horrified ghosts. There's even a great scene in a Hall-of-Mirrors  Haunted House maze, echoing with disorienting demonic laughter. The mood  is both legitimately terrifying and hilarious. The second half of the film careens headlong into glorious paranoia and  conspiracy-theory, reminiscent of 1970s political thrillers, involving  gleaming board-rooms populated by stone-faced military brass, top-secret  briefcases, and world-class weaponry that even the military wouldn't  admit to developing. David's strangeness is apparent from the get-go,  but it's just the tip of the iceberg. None of this would work without Dan Stevens' fascinating and compelling  presence at the center. When he left "Downton Abbey," after becoming an  old-school heartthrob as Matthew Crawley, the reluctant heir to the  great house, fans of the show howled in protest. Here, he shows his  versatility, something he had been itching to do during his years on  "Downton Abbey." Stevens' accent is seamless, without even a hint of his  British origins, and he brings a gentleness and openness to the  character that manages to seem extremely "off," as well as a truly  sinister undercurrent, something dead-eyed and remote.Wingard and Barrett have a perfect eye and ear for this type of  material. They have fun with their influences, paying homage to John  Carpenter and others. They're not afraid to be silly and bold. "The Guest" could  have drowned in top-heavy seriousness, while trying to make some  political point. But it's really not serious at all. That's a  compliment.