Solid work by actorMichelle Monaghan, who was terrific asWoody Harrelson’s wife in HBO’s “True Detective,” is the main attraction inClaudia Myers’ “Fort Bliss,” which examines the battles a female soldier faceswhen she returns to the home front. Although competently made, the film is sucha run-of-the-mill military melodrama that it might have skipped its assuredlybrief theatrical appearance and gone straight to VOD. The seemingly interminable conflict in Afghanistan havingbecome America’s longest war, it’s hardly surprising that it (like thenow-reviving Iraq War) has produced a spate of dramatic movies about its humancosts for American soldiers. These generally break down into those that observethe action “in country” and others which chronicle the after-effects onreturning soldiers. “Fort Bliss” starts out looking like the first type ofmovie but soon transforms into the second. Advertisement The tale opens in the heat of battle as a U.S. convoy isattacked while on a night mission and all hell breaks loose. In a chillinglygruesome scene, Army medic Maggie Swann (Monaghan) faces the task of extractinga large piece of ordnance from a badly wounded but still conscious soldier. Hercool expertise at performing this torturous action shows that she’s abattle-hardened pro. Fortunately for her, it’s her last day in Afghanistan. Butnext up, she’ll test the maxim that it’s harder going home than going to war. Back in the U.S. at the eponymous fort, Maggie first has todeal with the extreme disaffection of her five-year-old son, Paul (OakesFegley), who during her latest tour of duty has been living with her ex-husbandRichard (Ron Livingston) and his current wife. When Maggie comes to pick himup, the boy looks at her as if she’s a stranger and screams his head off as shetakes away with her. While the strength of this antagonism stretches credulitysomewhat (wouldn’t such distant parents be in constant touch with their kids bySkype?), the scenes between mother and son, which gradually grow warmer andmore affectionate, convey the difficulties that long separations causefamilies. But family isn’t Maggie’s only challenge. Still on activeduty, she’s charged with training a unit of medics who will eventually be sentto Afghanistan. It’s supposed to a temporary assignment, but then the group’sschedule is sped up, and she’s told she will go back to war with them.Fearing that her slowly recovering relationship with her son would be dealt amortal blow by another long separation, she comes up with a plan to get herselfassigned to a two-year tour of duty in South Korea, where Paul could accompanyher. But Richard is enraged at the thought of not seeing his son for two years andthreatens to sue for custody. And there’s another complication: Maggiegradually comes to see that the officer who would replace her in training themedics for Afghanistan (excellent Gbenga Akinnadbe) is a ticking time bombwhose unstable mental health could endanger her charges. Advertisement As if all this weren’t enough, Maggie has emotional problemsof her own. When her car breaks down one day, she gets some help and borrows amotorcycle from Luis (Manolo Cardona), a handsome Latino garage owner. Later hetakes her out for salsa dancing and margaritas, and soon enough they’re in bed;but while she’s hungry for sex, she can’t complete the act without coming tothe edge of a mental meltdown. No wonder, given her volatile life, that hertroubles include intimacy issues. “Fort Bliss” grew out of documentaries about veterans of theIraq and Afghanistan wars, including “The Long Road Home” and “Women at War,”that writer-director Myers previously made, and that no doubt explains bothpositive and not-so-positive things about it. On the plus side, the film’saccount of its heroine’s problems feels very accurate and informed. On theother hand, it also feels like a drama that’s been made rather schematicallyfrom a checklist of such problems rather than more organically. Likewise,though Myers’ staging and work with her cast, especially the charismatic andskilled Monaghan, is adroit, the film’s sense of style might be calledoff-the-rack. In times past, “Fort Bliss” would have been called a“programmer.” There’s no derogation in that description, but no particulardistinction either.