Lance Daly’s “Life’s a Breeze” is as amiable and windsweptas its title promises, for better or worse. One wishes it gusted a bit moreoften, but the always-greatFionnula Flanaganand truly charming newcomer KellyThornton nearly justify the film’s more sitcomish, hackneyed scenes. Nearly.Having adored Daly’s wonderful coming-of-age-meets-fairy-tale film “Kisses,” Iwas hoping for a bit more of that magic in “Breeze,” and, other than theaforementioned two performances, one has to dig through too many false, forcedcomedy beats to find them here. Advertisement Nan (Flanagan) is a good old-fashioned Irish hoarder. The Dublinresident has never been much trouble to her neighbors and generally keeps toherself. Her unemployed son Colm (Pat Shortt) joins forces with his otherfamily members to give Nan a gift she could never give herself—a clean house.Niece Emma (Thornton) takes Nan out for the day, and they return to a spotlesshome. Old Chinese takeout menus, newspapers, broken kitchen appliances and anoutdated TV: all gone. So is the old mattress Nan has been sleeping on fordecades. And shoving her money in because she doesn’t trust the banks. That’sright: there’s a million Euros in a mattress now winding its way through theDublin recycling system. A wacky journey to find it ensues. Sort of. While “Life’s a Breeze” has an undeniably sitcomishpresence, it’s almost as if the realist in Daly refuses to embrace thepotentially wacky set-up. And so we’re stuck with a film somewhere in themiddle. It's not as offensively slapstick-y as it could have been but it's not realism either. It's caught in the boring center of those two ends of the spectrum. To be fair, character beats between Flanagan and Thornton, particularly in thefinal act, are truly effective. Flanagan has always been a performer who can doa lot with very little, and Thornton has the kind of natural screen presencethat announces someone on the film scene. She’s the one performer here whotruly feels in the moment; at least partially because it feels like she’s theone character Daly truly likes. Daly’s skill with slice of life connects in the scenes betweenNan and Emma, and they nearly justify the piece in just a few truthful glances. These are twointeresting characters brought to life by intriguing actresses. Too bad thereisn’t anything in “Life’s a Breeze” to support them. Advertisement