With narrative echoes of “Sucker Punch” and stylisticcommonalities with “Sin City,” one would expectJohn Suits’ “The Scribbler,”adapted by graphic novelistDan Schaffer, to at least be a bit of escapist fun.A female empowerment, mental illness-defeating, noir-esque comic book moviewith B-movie Goddesses likeGina Gershon,Sasha GreyandEliza Dushku? Where doI buy tickets? And yet “The Scribbler” never clicks into the escapist mind f**kit really needed to be to work. It can't maintain its style and never finds its substance. It’s a ridiculous narrative with scenery-chewingperformances, but it doesn’t have the form to match. It’s dull when one wantsit to be ludicrous, and serves as a reminder of how hard it is to bring comic books to celluloid life on a limited budget. Advertisement Suki (Katie Cassidy) has multiple personalities, one ofwhich is the title character. Her Doctor (Billy Campbell) has developed atechnique known as “The Siamese Burn,” which is essentially a massive shock tothe system designed to destroy the extraneous personalities one at a time. Butwhich ones are extraneous? And what will she do when she’s down to two?Questions like these linger in the background of what is also a poorly-writtenmystery. The “Burn” subplot is actually part of a flashback conveyed through aninvestigation by two police officers (Eliza Dushku,Michael Imperioli) into whyall of Suki’s fellow inhabitants of Juniper Tower happen to be showing up dead.The Tower is a halfway house for the “mentally and socially inept,” whichallows for a cavalcade of odd characters, including a bunny ear-wearing SashaGrey, milk bath-taking Gina Gershon, disturbingMichelle Trachtenberg,scene-stealingGarret Dillahuntand a girl who just walks around naked (AshlynnYennie). One by one, most of these characters jump from Juniper Tower, leadingone to wonder if “The Scribbler” doesn’t have echoes of “Identity” as well andthese people are all just dying personalities of the film’s protagonist. The best moments of “The Scribbler” embrace the film’sridiculous concept with overheated dialogue pulled from the noir/action comicbook manual. “Why don’t you tell me what happened, from the beginning?” “That’snot always the best way to tell a story.” Those lines early in Schaffer’s filmsets it up as a work that will navigate the traditional storytelling structurein a unique manner, but “The Scribbler” ends up depressingly linear. And most ofthe subtext—the burning out of personalities could clearly be read a commentaryon control of female individuality and sexuality—is underdeveloped to theextreme. “The Scribbler” feels like an outline of a better film. There are times when one can see what “The Scribbler” couldhave become. Garret Dillahunt, so great on “Deadwood” and “Raising Hope,” ishaving a blast as the one guy in Juniper Tower, who “checked the wrong box.” Heeven gets a slo-mo sex scene with Cassidy that kind of needs to be seen to bebelieved. I wanted more of that kind of insanity instead of the drab, episodicpacing of a film that feels way longer than its 88 minutes. It’s ugly when it shouldbe crazy. Someone burned all the personality out of it. Advertisement