“A Life InDirty Movies” hooks you with its title, then surprises by supplementing itssalacious material with a charming look at the couple who made those dirtymovies. Wictor Ericsson’s documentary is sweeter and more innocent than it hasany right to be, which is not to say that it’s clean. The subject issexploitation, and there are plenty of clips to represent the career of JosephSarno and his wife, Peggy Steffans. Until theatergoers got a whiff of hardcoreporn, the Sarnos were well known for their erotic, female-centric works, moviesthat showed just enough to delude viewers into thinking they saw far more thanthey did. Advertisement Ericsson gives us the gist of Sarno’s films, but thebest parts of “A Life in Dirty Movies” deal with the relationship between Joeand Peggy. She dotes on him, and he responds with affection. Ericsson asksquestions, but more often than not, he just shoots the Sarnos interacting withone another. These moments reveal a beautiful love story, one made even richerwhen Peggy explains how her parents disapproved (and continues to disapprove)of her marrying someone they considered a smut peddler. I became so invested inthis love story that I gasped with worry when Peggy’s mother showed up late inthe film to talk to Ericsson. Therelationship between Joe and Peggy anchors “A Life In Dirty Movies,” but Ericssondoesn’t forget the reason why we are here. Sarno directed films whose titlesoffered no hint of their artistic intentions. Ticket-buyers for 1964’s “Sin inthe Suburbs” weren’t expecting pristine black and white cinematography and artycamerawork inspired by a certain famous Swedish master of angst. Audiences camefor the sin, but alas, not because of it: There was more implicit suggestionthan explicit depiction onscreen. “I was allowed just a quick flash of nakedbreasts in that,” Sarno says as the clip rolls. It’s a pretty long quick flash. Severalblack and white clips show a filmmaker who put as much thought into hislighting, framing and composition as he did into choreographing the “goodparts.” The craftsmanship was impressive enough to inspire several recent retrospectives ofSarno’s work. “A Life In Dirty Movies” goes to London to one suchretrospective. Joe beams with pride while Peggy tells us how glad she is thathe’s alive to see these appreciations. “For Joe, itwasn’t just about the sex,” Peggy tells us. “It was about the people and their situations.”For example, “Sin in the Suburbs” has one hell of a climax: A mother anddaughter both discover, mid-orgy, that they’re part of the same sex club. Thedaughter freaks out accordingly. Talk about a bucket of ice water being thrown onthe audience’s overheating loins! “A Life in Dirty Movies” makes it worse byhaving someone describe the logistics of how, as the two women worked throughthe townsfolk, they’d eventually arrive at the worst possible combination ofbodies. Sarno managed to convey all this information with scenes that are tameby today’s standards. Advertisement During thesexploitation era, nudity and sexual situations could be smuggled into “artfilms” because Europeans were sending more risqué imagery to our shoresalready. Sweden was already notorious for this—“I Am Curious: Yellow” wouldeventually be seized for being dirty. Sarno capitalizes on the reputationSwedish films had by going to Sweden with Peggy to make movies. After their 1968film “Inga” is a success, the Sarnos split their time between New York City andSweden. As “A Lifein Dirty Movies” opens, Joe is planning to make a return to the softcore marketwith a new script. As he works on it,and tries to get it made, people appear onscreen to praise Joe’s old movies. Filmhistorians, former stars and Joe’s old editor and producer are some of thetalking heads we encounter. The ray of unpredictable, brilliant sunshine thatisJohn Watersdiscusses Sarno’s effect on his early moviegoing experiences. The instantlyrecognizable Annie Sprinkle, who doesn’t look as if she’s aged since the '80s, speaksabout working with the director. One can seehow Sarno earned the moniker “The Bergman of 42ndStreet.” Patrons of the theaters that used to line thatfamous thoroughfare became less than impressed, however. “The raincoat crowdwould have been somewhat disappointed,” notes one talking head regarding Sarno’searly films. If you are unaware of who “the raincoat crowd” is, “A Life inDirty Movies” tells you more than you’ll ever want to know about them. They eventuallydrive Sarno into harder fare, and then out of the business of cinematic titillationaltogether. Once welearn all this, Joe’s latest movie takes on added importance; he’s a comebackkid for whom we root. There are the usual setbacks and successes, and when we finallylearn what happens with Joe’s last script, it is truly bittersweet. If “A Lifein Dirty Movies” had a tagline, it would be “Come for the sex, stay for thelove story.” It’s a deeper, more rewarding experience than its title suggests.