Both an incredible (and occasionally harrowing) adventureand an uncompromising, tough character study, “Tracks,” directed by JohnCurran, has already been deemed by certain purveyors of conventional moviewisdom as the lesser of two women-into-the-wild movies opening this fall. Ihaven’t seen the picture that’s been getting more of the you-know-whatbuzz—that would be “Wild,” starringReese Witherspoonand, like this movie,adapted from a true story—but I can tell you that whatever your movie plans,you miss “Tracks” at your aesthetic pleasure peril. It’s a truly outstandingcinema experience. Advertisement The movietells the story ofRobyn Davidson, to whom the viewer is introduced in themid-‘70s. In narration, Davidson (played with incredible stamina and quiteappealing intimations of humility byMia Wasikowska) describes herdisenchantment with the society of other people, and how tired she is ofsuffering the depredations visited upon “my sex and class.” In moreconventional movies in which a young woman undertakes a nearly 2,000 mile solojourney across a desert, there’s likely to be a lot of hoo-hah about the searchfor self and spirituality. Not here. Wasikowska’s Robyn just wants to be alone,with her camels and her beloved dog. Nobodymakes it easy for her. First she has to learn to train camels. On the edge ofthe Australian outback, she interacts with several hostile characters, andanimals, before getting her retinue together. Once she’s got that, she realizesshe needs some financing. She pitches a chronicle of her journey to “NationalGeographic” magazine, and they go for it. The catch is they want a photographerto drop in on her periodically to take the sort of pictures for which themagazine was so well known. No, notthosepictures. Anyway, so much for being alone. Thephotographer is an amiable fellow named Rick, played byAdam Driverwith noneof the outsize idiosyncrasy the actor has brought to his roles on the TV series“Girls” or his bit in the Coen Brothers’ “Inside Llewyn Davis.” Rick is merelya nice guy, and he’s kind of perplexed by Robyn, as are many of the people sheencounters as she prepares and then explores the desert. “You don’t have to beunlucky to die out there,” one doubter advises her. The further out she gets,the more instances of poor luck occur, but also revelations about her past thatspeak to the compulsion that drives her on her journey. But the journey is notjust one of catharsis for Robyn. Along the way, she defines her own idea offreedom, making her own existence a manifestation of her rather radicalphilosophy. The romance one might have envisioned between Robyn and Rick nevermaterializes—yes, spoiler alert, she does sleep with the guy, but you get theidea she’s mainly doing it to shut him up. The steely character Curran,screenwriterMarion Nelson, and Wasikowska create out of Davidson is not meantto cozy up to the viewer but to present a challenge to him or her. Advertisement “Tracks”isn’t interested in falsely flattering its audience, but it is interested inravishing it: the nature imagery presented in widescreen by the director andcinematographerMandy Walkeris breathtaking; striking and poetic, but verydifferent from that of “Walkabout,” the 1971 outback exploration classic thatthis movie doesn’t really recall all that much despite some thematic parallels.That’s a compliment. “Tracks” has a flavor, a resonance all its own. Curran,returning to the continent where he began his movie career after a period inAmerica that saw him making the too-little-seen drama “Stone,” seems to me aconsistently underrated director with a distinctive voice and vision: both comethrough loud and clear in this movie.