“When you hear Clark,you hear his life. Only a master can do that.”—Herbie HancockClark Terryis more than just a jazz legend. He’s more thanjust the guy who mentoredQuincy Jones, and who Dizzy Gillespie and MilesDavis thought was the best trumpet player who ever lived. InAlan Hicks’ “KeepOn Keepin’ On,” Clark Terry becomes something greater than just a Grammy LifetimeAchievement Award winner; he becomes an inspiration, a man who could teach usall a thing or two about craft, dedication and dealing with life's tragedies. Hicks avoids thetraditional bio-doc route by turning “Keep On Keepin’ On” into more than justCT’s story, chronicling how the legendary musician continues to inspire youngartists to this day, most notably an incredibly-talented blind piano playernamedJustin Kauflin. There is something of a sense that “Keep On Keepin’ On”doesn’t quite have the material to justify a feature-length documentary runningtime, and that this would have made one of the best “60 Minutes” segments ever,but Terry’s story resonates emotionally enough to make that a minor complaint. Advertisement Hicks spent five years with Terry, experiencing his 90thbirthday with the remarkably open man and hearing his life story. He grew up inpoverty, building his own trumpet from parts of metal he found in hisneighborhood. It created such an abhorrent sound that his community rallied toget him a real instrument. And a musical legend was born. Everyone who mattersin jazz music seems to have crossed paths with Terry at one point or another,most notably Quincy Jones, who was mentored by the trumpet player. He was thefirst black staff musician at NBC. I wish Hicks included even more about Terry’sinfluence on jazz history. Hearing CT (as his friends call him) reminisce aboutmissingDuke Ellingtonand Count Basie, both of whom he played with, hasincredible power for jazz fans. Terry may not have the household name status ofhis peers, but this film argues that he should. However, that’s not Hicks’ focus. He spends much more timeon 23-year-old Justin Kauflin, a blind piano prodigy who met Terry through oneof the programs the trumpet player runs for young musical talent. Kauflin wentblind when he was in sixth grade. No playing with friends. No video games. Hesat down in front of a piano, and something beautiful came out. Kauflin’s storyis one that falls into what I like to call the “perspective documentary genre.”If you think you’re having a rough day or can’t escape from whatever hole lifehas dug for you, Kauflin’s worldview should give you a little perspective. Hesimply never lets his situation get him down (at least on film). His ringtoneis “Don’t Worry, Be Happy” for God’s sake. Kauflin and Terry make a fascinating pair. Terry hasdiabetes, and his health worsens throughout the film. Meanwhile, Kauflin’s staris rising, which means performances that have to be faced despite his debilitatingstage fright. These two men, 70 years apart, still inspire each other, and thatinspiration can be infectious. “Keep On Keepin’ On” is the kind of film that shouldpush those who have achieved master status to pass it on to another generation,and encourage those in need of guidance to find the men or women they want tobe and ask them how they got there. As Terry says, it’s desire that separatesmasters from amateurs. And it’s nice to see two people with such desire fortheir craft. Advertisement