Stop me if you think you’ve heard this one before: In arigidly structured dystopian future, one plucky teenager dares to think forhimself, shake up the status quo and start a revolution–or, at least thebeginning of a trilogy. Such is the stuff of “The Maze Runner,” which hews prettyclosely to the YA-novel formula that’s reliably produced so many hugelysuccessful film adaptations in recent years. And, indeed, directorWes Ball’sfilm is based on the best seller byJames Dashner. It features a similar structure, hits some recognizable beats and includes somecharacter types that will seem pretty familiar to anyone who’s seen the “HungerGames” films, or “Divergent,” or “The Giver.” Advertisement But its roots stretch back further to classic, allegoricalliterature about frightening utopias, especially “Lord of the Flies.” Whilethere’s no Piggy and no conch, the teenage boys who populate this eerilyidyllic society have formed their own leadership and their own rules, and theythink they’ve achieved a peaceful sense of order. That is, until Thomas shows up. Actually, he doesn’t evenknow his name is Thomas at first. Dylan O’Brien (MTV’s “Teen Wolf”), whoresembles a youngRob Lowe, plays the confused young man. At the film’s start,he finds himself rising quickly in a big, rickety freight elevator that’s alsoloaded with supplies. (The film’s sound design is quite startling andeffective; it puts you on edge from the earliest moments.) When he arrives at the top, he steps out into a sprawling,grassy square known as the Glade, which is surrounded on all sides by imposingand impossibly high concrete walls. Dozens of handsome, young men of variousethnicities wearing various shades of the same long-sleeved shirt work togethercooperatively in the sunshine–building huts, gardening, cooking, etc. It’slike the world’s hottest, grungiest Benetton ad. Like the others before him, Thomas has no memory of who heis and no idea how he got there. But as the newest arrival to the Glade, he isdubbed a “greenie” and duly hazed until he can prove his worth to the keyfigures he meets. The charismatic Alby (Aml Ameen), who was the first toarrive, is the de facto leader. Newt (Thomas Brodie-Sangster) is his impishright-hand man. Gally (Will Poulter) is the muscular bully. Chuck (BlakeCooper) is the wisecracking chubby kid. And Minho (Ki Hong Lee) is the head of the runners:fleet-footed boys who dare to enter an opening in the giant walls and explorethe maze that lies behind them. It’s vast and treacherous but at leastnavigable in the daytime; at night, it closes up, changes paths and devoursanyone foolish enough to remain trapped. No one has survived it overnight andno one has exited the other side. Naturally, Thomas is intrigued. And what’s intriguing about “The Maze Runner”–for a longtime, at least–is the way it tells us a story we think we’ve heard countlesstimes before but with a refreshingly different tone and degree of detail. Ball, whosebackground is in visual effects, doesn’t overload his feature debut with a lotof glossy, high-tech imagery. Not for a while, anyway. Much of the film’s charmcomes from its rough-hewn aesthetic–a tactile nature that’s both industrialand organic–and the way it takes its time vividly establishing an environment. Advertisement When Thomas eventually does enter the maze–no spoilerthere, folks, it’s in the title–it produces some moments that are trulyharrowing and filled with non-stop, near-death peril. (This is a super-violentPG-13, but then again, the young readers who are the target for these booksknow what’s in store for them.) The beasts who dwell there are incessant,ravenous and very, very fast. I won’t divulge what they are, but I’ll only saythat they’re extremely cool looking and scary as hell. All of which brings us to the ending. Man, that ending. Whata misstep. It’s so incredibly frustrating, because everything was going so welluntil then. The third act brings some mystery with the arrival of the firstgirl ever sent up in the elevator: a strong-willed brunette named Teresa (KayaScodelario), who seems to know Thomas already. But The Big Reveal of what happened to these kids, whotrapped them in this place and what their purpose is ends up being pretty over-the-topeven for sci-fi. A lot happens in the film’s final minutes to the extent thatit makes “The Maze Runner” feel like it has several conclusions. Some of themfeature some unintentional hilarity when shock and fear probably were in thegame plan. And they squander the formidable and versatilePatricia Clarksoninonly a few moments as the chilly, nefarious mastermind of the maze. Presumably, she’ll figure more prominently in the sequel.Because, oh yes, it’s coming. You will not have to wander around looking for itfor long.