A few years back, when “Night of the Living Dead”-redolentzombie movies started popping up like, well, zombies, there was a joke amongmovie mavens who were past masters of the genre, to the effect of “Haven’t thecharacters in these zombie movies ever seen any…zombie movies? Because if theyhad, they’d know to shoot the zombies in the head. Problem solved.” I had asimilar thought watching “Two Night Stand,” a slight but not-unengaging YoungPerson’s Romantic Comedy, at a point when the two main characters, charminglyplayed by Annaleigh Tipton andMiles Teller, discuss The Female Orgasm.“Haven’t these kids seen ‘When Harry Met Sally’?” True, it’s not difficult toimagine male millennials avoiding theNora Ephron/Rob Reinerpicture like theplague, but That Clip is sufficiently ubiquitous… Advertisement This is admittedly a minor quibble. It’s not even really aquibble. However, it’s not an entirely great sign about a movie’s preciselevelof engagement when such thoughtsoccur. Take that as you will. Written byMark Hammer, who also wrote for theMTV Young Person’s Edgy Lifestyles series “Skins,” and directed byMax Nichols,whose prior screen credit is a small role as a child actor inMilos Forman’s“Ragtime,” “Two Night Stand” gets off to a somewhat rocky start in establishingits 21st-Century-Zeitgeist bonafides. "Montage of Quirkily AttractiveYoung Woman Prevaricating Over The Details Of Her Online Dating Profile,Complete With CGI Balloons Depicting Instant Messaging Dialogue"? Check."Personal Observations Buttressed With Knowing Pop Culture References"? Check.(Sample: Tipton’s character, a breakup victim who’s been taking it hard on hersassy roomie’s couch, notes of her current existence, “I’m going backwards…I’mBenjamin Buttoning!”) “You Live In BROOKLYN? Joke Directed At A Potential SexPartner?" Check. Tipton’s Megan impulsively hooks up with Teller’s Alec;hostilities and misunderstandings ensue after the deed is done and she’slooking to make a getaway, but the getaway’s impossible because a blizzard hassocked New York City and the now-resentful duo is snowed in. (Michael Showalter’sTV-screen bit part as a “wacky” weatherman is broad but not undiverting.) Thisis where the movie settles in and gets interesting, as the two discern anopportunity for complete honesty in the current situation. It’s not “SexualPerversity In Chicago,” nor is it meant to be, as romantic comedy conventioncalls for a cessation of hostility at some point. Tipton and Teller, neither ofwhom is conventionally glamorous, mesh well together, and Nichols keeps theirexchanges brisk and makes the most of the limited cinematic space the scenariodemands he work with. (And yes, the gentleman is more than a bit player in“Ragtime;” his father isMike Nichols, a director who’s handled his share oficonic rom-coms—“Working Girl,” “Heartburn,” “Who’s Afraid ofVirginia Woolf,”that sort of thing.) Where the movie loses what oomph it has is in thecutaways to the ostensibly high-style canoodlings of Megan’s roomie and herboyfriend, which look like outtakes from a particularly dopey CW sitcom, and ofcourse the commit-cute finale in which the "Meant For Each Otherness" of it allis asserted.  Such scenes always involvemore than a modicum of contrivance, as in the airport-gate-slow-clap scene; inany event, this one sets the "Big Realization" on New Year’s Eve, which suggestswriter Hammer has seen “When Harry Met Sally” even if his characters haven’t.