“Pride” wearson its sleeve the desire to make its audience stand up and cheer. It is willingto occasionally plumb the depths of familiar formula to achieve its goal. Hereis a true story that could have been played as straight drama, yet thefilmmakers opted for a lighter approach to capture hearts and minds. The Britsdo this type of crowd-pleaser far better than Hollywood, if only because filmslike “The Full Monty” and “Billy Elliot” were unafraid to temper sweetness withdarker elements of reality. The characters in “Pride” may exist in a frothy cinematiccontraption, but all is not sunshine and roses. Advertisement During theUK Miners Strike of 1984-85, an unlikely ally showed its support for theminers. Led by Mark Ashton (Ben Schnetzer), the London chapter of Lesbians andGays Support the Miners (LGSM) started to collect money to help the unionworkers. Standing outside the “Gay is the Word” bookstore, Mark and his friendshold buckets and chant out the name of their organization. Some people donate,but others spit at them. Mark convinces his friends to persevere because theonly people the homophobic British newspapers treated worse than gay peoplewere the miners. “If anybody knows what this treatment feels like,” Mark says, “it’sus.” To itsdetriment, “Pride” doesn’t provide more details on how Mark got the idea tosupport the miners as opposed to some other cause. According to Wikipedia, supportersof the strike were advised to partner with mining communities because thegovernment had seized all union funds, making donations to the national miners unionimpossible. This explains LGSM’s numerous attempts to partner with communities,all of which are happy to team up until they hear the name of the organization.Through a misunderstanding about the group’s acronym (“I thought the L stoodfor London,” saysPaddy Considine’s miner, Dai), LGSM hooks up with the DalaisValley miners in South Wales. Aftermeeting with the group, Dai invites them to attend a union meeting in his Welshtown. Thosejoining Mark on the trip include Joe (George MacKay), a college student who isnot out to his parents, and May-September couple Jonathan (Dominic West) and Gethin(Andrew Scott). Joe is our audience stand-in, a shy, inexperienced young manwho meets Mark at the 1984 London Gay Pride parade. In most movies, Joe’s storywould be the primary arc; here he’s just one of several stories that unfold in “Pride”.Welshman Gethin’s return to his home country after 16 years, and hisrelationship with polar opposite Jonathan, are given almost equal time. Themining town is represented by Considine’s Dai,Imelda Staunton’s Hefina andBill Nighy’s Cliff, all of whom have their own moments to drive the plot. Mark’sown successes and struggles as the leader of LGSM are threaded throughouteveryone else’s tales. Advertisement DirectorMatthew Warchusreveals a Broadway musical theatricality in his juggling of theseplot lines, tying everything together into a neat, effective package that willplay well to a packed house. He sometimes let scenes ramble on longer than expectedor even warranted, but this is a forgivable sin when the actors so compellinglyinhabit their characters. Now, aboutall that cliché: You know me. I’m Mr. “cliché isn’t a bad thing if it’s doneright.” There are several predictable aspects of “Pride,” some of which,believe it or not, actually did happen. You can see the “Pits and Perverts”concert idea coming from a mile away (and not just because it’s an actual eventthat took place). You can easily predict that one of the mining town characterswill out himself as gay. The outcome of Gethin’s visit to the mother who kickedhim out is never in doubt. The biggest adversary to LGSM’s charitable efforts towsa hard line of standard-issue villainy. Someone will dance with recklessabandon and use his skills to help some straight guys woo a few ladies. And ofcourse, some of the stodgy old mining town people wind up unashamedly partyingat a gay bar and looking at dirty magazines. (Seeing Harry Potter’s Dolores Umbridge hold up a huge sex toy might be worth the price of admission.) And yet,inside each of these elements, “Pride” finds a way to surprise and move us. Someof them unfold in a quieter way than one would expect. And we are never completelyuntethered from the movie’s harsher realities. They are woven in, sometimes atthe fringes and sometimes in the center of the action. The 80’s era paranoia andmisinformation about AIDS haunt the proceedings, as does the danger of beingout and proud in a hostile environment. The fear of identifying and associatingwith people whom society rejects is always in the background, as is the fear offamilial rejection because of one’s identity. That lastone is most notable in Joe’s story. At one point, Mark gives Joe a button thatsays “I am (discreetly) gay,” and the running joke about Joe using a fakecollege cooking class to cover for his LGSM activities gives way to a hauntingand sad confrontation with his family. Warcusshoots it so that we cannot hear what is being said, eventually panning away asif it were too painful to see. The title “Pride”comes to mean different things for the film’s characters. For some, it’s pridein their achievements; for others, it is pride in who they are or what theyhave become. Each actor gets to play a riff on this, with the standouts being West,Nighy, Schnetzer, Staunton and MacKay. They all contribute to a movie that is alot of fun to watch and, for me, was profoundly moving at numerous intervals.The last scene, at the 1985 London GayPride parade, is as good an emotional moment as any I’ve seen this year. Advertisement The takeawaymessage of “Pride” is that meeting someone of a different race, gender,orientation or status is a lot more informative, honest and enriching thanexperiencing them from the error-prone safe haven of a TV set's depiction or favoritewebsite’s description of them. In doing so, one can make a difference foroneself and the world at large. We are not that different from one another, andwe could use all the help we can get. This too can be seen as a clichéd message,but it’s one I wouldn’t mind repeated on infinite loop until everybody believedit.