You will not hear “Red House” in “Jimi: All Is By My Side,” thenew musical drama about Jimi Hendrix. You will not hear “Fire,” or “PurpleHaze,” or “The Wind Cries Mary,” or even my favorite Hendrix song, “ManicDepression.” And of the covers that the ideally castAndre Benjaminperforms asthe iconic guitarist, you won’t hear his famous, glorious version of “TheStar-Spangled Banner.” This is because writer-directorJohn Ridleyand his teamcouldn’t secure the rights to any of that spectacular music from Hendrix’sestate. This would seem like a massive obstacle in trying to make a film aboutJimi Hendrix. Instead, the filmmakers have turned it into an opportunity. Advertisement They’ve chosen to focus on the year before Hendrix became asuperstar–when he was still planting the seeds of his greatness and signaturesound. Similar to the way “The Motorcycle Diaries” approached a young CheGuevara, “Jimi: All Is By My Side,” depicts a small but crucial sliver in thelife of a gargantuan cultural figure: the time he spent in London from 1966-67.It’s a risky approach that’s bound to frustrate many folks, but it’s also quiteilluminating in its own way. Besides, how clichéd is the traditional biopic at this point?Actually, it’s a genre that has long since been clichéd, as evidenced by thebrilliantly dead-on “Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story.” And that came out all theway back in 2007. We didn’t need to see a montage of a drug-addled Hendrixbeing mobbed by fans as his hits make their way up the charts. Instead, Ridley–a novelist, playwright, commentator andproducer who’s probably best known for winning the Academy Award this year forhis “12 Years a Slave” screenplay–shows us a soft-spoken, cerebral andsometimes insecure Hendrix. “My voice is terrible,” the soon-to-be legendinsists when an early mentor suggests that he also sing while dazzlingaudiences with his formidable guitar talents. What’s fascinating about “Jimi: All Is By My Side” is notonly its decision to show us this particular chapter in Hendrix’s life, but alsothe way it teases out the shadings in a famous figure we only think we know sowell. Benjamin–a.k.a. Andre 3000 of OutKast–is certainly familiar with whatit takes to give an electrifying on-stage performance. Hendrix has been alongtime hero of his, and a lanky Benjamin convincingly conveys a persona thatwas as elusive as his stage presence was explosive. But it’s the quieter, more philosophical and evenconflicting elements of Hendrix’s personality that are even more compelling.You get the sense that if he hadn’t been discovered playing backup guitar atNew York’s Cheetah Club in 1966, Hendrix might have been content playing gigshere and there and spending his free time wandering around Greenwich Village,perusing secondhand clothing stores and reading paperback sci-fi novels. “I want my music to go into the soul of a person,” Hendrixsays at one point. And indeed, Ridley has chosen a similarly ethereal approachat times to his storytelling. Memories come in impressionistic wisps and fromvarious sources–old footage and photographs from the period, for example.Conversations overlap at a party or a pub. The sound design all around is quiteclever; in one scene, we see Hendrix playing but we hear the actual noise ofhis fingers on the strings rather than the song itself. Advertisement We can’t quite capture it all, Ridley seems to be saying,just as a biopic couldn’t possibly capture the complete nature of a toweringcultural titan. Again, it might prove frustrating for filmgoers who’d prefer amore traditional narrative (or, you know, actual Hendrix songs). Instead,“Jimi: All Is By My Side” shines a light on a formative time in his all-tooshort career, and on the women who nurtured, shaped and loved him. The first is Linda Keith (Imogen Poots), best known at thattime, reductively, asKeith Richards’ girlfriend. Keith is the one whodiscovers him playing backup and immediately recognizes that she’s in thepresence of greatness. Poots’ smart and sexy demeanor has significantlyimproved marginal material like “Need for Speed” and “That Awkward Moment.”Here, she’s the seductive voice of reason with a head for business–a posh, Modgoddess and a pushy stage mother. (Costume designer Leonie Pendergastbeautifully recreates the bold, minimalist look of Swinging Sixties style.) Keith connects Hendrix with the man who would become his manager, the Animals’ bassist Chas Chandler (Andrew Buckley). She alsolines up the members of his own band, the Experience: bass player Noel Redding(Oliver Bennett) and drummer Mitch Mitchell (Tom Dunlea), whose mop of curlyhair inspired Hendrix’s trademark Afro. But Keith’s actual feelings fall into a gray area betweenfriendship, territoriality and love. And so things get tense when a secondwoman comes along: Kathy Etchingham (Hayley Atwell), who would become Hendrix’slongtime girlfriend and Yoko Ono figure. She was also Keith’s opposite: avolatile, potty-mouthed, redheaded hairdresser. Atwell is a scream in a rolethat’s totally different from any she’s ever played before, especially comparedto the buttoned-down Peggy Carter in the “Captain America” universe. (The real-life Etchingham herself is not so thrilled with the film,however, and has written that a scene in which Hendrix savagely beats her witha telephone receiver at a pub never actually happened. The outburst does seemto come out of nowhere and doesn’t exactly jibe with the easygoing nature we’dseen up until then.) Both women, however, feel protective over Hendrix. In a lotof ways, “Jimi: All Is By My Side” is about these powerful female forces, withHendrix himself fading into the background, lounging in a comfortable chair andrapping about groovy, cosmic concepts. But then a third woman comes along whotakes him in an entirely different direction: Ida (the serenely beautiful RuthNegga), a fellow American living in London as a black activist. A fictionalfigure in this realm who’s based on other people, Ida insists that Hendrixshould use his gifts and charisma to speak to and for the black people. That’s not his thing, man. And as he begins to hone hissound and recognize his power, we see glimmers of him turning into theprototypical dismissive and narcissistic rock god. But given Ridley’s overallapproach, these are only glimmers. Hendrix’s fiery and triumphant performanceat the 1967 Monterey Pop Festival awaits. The prospect of it danglestantalizingly before us at the film’s conclusion. All we can do is cheer, andhope, and wait for an encore that will never come. Advertisement