That’s a lovely word,lilting. It means the pleasing rise and fall of a voice, usually accented, andso it makes an apt title for “Lilting” the first featurefor writer-directorHong Khaou, which concerns itself with a language barrier.Junn (Cheng Pei Pei) is an elderly Chinese-Cambonian woman who emigrated toBritain decades ago but still depends entirely on her son Kai (Andrew Leung).In the first scene, we see the way she manipulates and guilt trips him; shewonders why he is visiting her as if she were “a pet.”Junn, it turns out, has been put intoan oddly decorated and sparsely populated assisted living facility by Kaibecause of her growing forgetfulness. We find out fairly quickly that theconversation she has been having with Kai has been an imagined one, for Kai isdead. Advertisement Wedon’t learn too muchabout Kai over the course of “Lilting” aside from the factthat he meant everything in the world to his lover Richard (Ben Whishaw), whokeeps coming to see Junn and even hires Vann (Naomi Christie), a translator, sothat he can talk to her. Most of the scenes in this movie take place at aremove between the people talking, and so there’s an inherent drama in the negotiatingprocess between Junn and Richard; in the things that they say to each other andthe things that they say only to Vann. The best scene in the film is aconfrontation between them where everything comes to a head, and Vann can barelykeep up with their anger and their jockeying for position. But“Lilting” suffers from a lackof plausibility in its central situation and elsewhere. Scenes with Junn’s slightly seedyEnglish romantic interest Alan (Peter Bowles) seem shoehorned in from a muchbroader and quietly comic movie, and they play awkwardly next to the quietlydramatic core of the material. Nothingin the writing tells us why on earth Richard is doing all this for a woman whohas dismissed and insulted him in the past, refusing to see what hisrelationship was with her son. What Richard wants most of all is to rescue Junnfrom the home and let her come live with him, and this is highly implausiblefor several reasons, not least of which is the fact that the home itself lookslike such a comfortable and inviting place. It’s hard to believe such a place exists,and if it did, surely it would be out of the price range of all but thewealthiest people, yet we never learn how Kai was able to afford it; if Honghad wanted to create a rooting interest here, he might have made the home amore realistically harried and down-at-heel facility. It’s very hard to knowwhy Richard, a young man, would want his dead lover’s disapprovingmother to move in with him, but Whishaw brings such romantic intensity to thesituation that he almost makes you believe it, in spite of the fact that Kai isdepicted only as a cipher. Whishawis the most gifted and poetic actor in his age range, by a very wide margin,and everything he does here is fresh and unexpected. Though he works with suchquickness of thought and reaction, with so many things happening in his face insuch rapid succession, he never seems mannered or busy. Whishaw brings the samekind of immediacy to his playing on screen as he does to his work on stage, andhe transfigures practically all of his dialogue here, making it sound purelyfelt; he sometimes plays one-hundred percent against the inadvertently sillywords he has been given to say to get at deeper feelings. Aside from his extraordinaryemotional expressiveness and his distinctively will-o’-the-wispphysicality there is a steady integrity to his playing, to what he findsinteresting and true. His best scenes are with Christie’s Vann, where hegets to be more casual and funny and hint at a fuller life denied him by thescript. Advertisement WatchingWhishaw in “Lilting” is a little likewatching Garbo in one of her lesser vehicles like “Romance” (1930) or “Inspiration” (1931). As withher, Margaret Sullavan, Gérard Philipe, RiverPhoenix and a few other very special and gallantly vulnerable players, just putthe camera on Whishaw and that’sreally all you need for a movie. He is one of the few working actors that youreally should see in everything, and though “Lilting” doesn’t give him enough to play with, itdoes offer the pleasure of watching him in the full flower of his dogged,little-brother-ish, quicksilver inspiration.