In pretty much any motion picture, or work of fiction, ifthere’s a scene in which a character rationalizes a clearly ill-advisedappropriation by saying, “What makes money bad? The people. What the people dowith it,” you can be pretty sure that this character is going to get a hardlesson not in what people do with money, but what they’ll doforit.James Franco’sTom Wright, adown-on-his-employment-luck contractor moved from the U.S. to London with hiswife Anna, played byKate Hudson, makes the above-quoted pronouncement afterfinding over a quarter-of-a-million British pounds stashed in the false ceilingof a tenant who’s just croaked of a drug OD. Advertisement Tom’s inheavy debt—the house he’s inherited in the U.K., and is renovating, is a moneypit, and he and Anna are about to be evicted from the house they’re renting andsubletting. So he could use the money. Who couldn’t, at least among us?Presenting the pile to Anna, Tom puts on his best head-cocked James Francoesquesmile and says, “So what do we do?” and Anna puts on her bestKate-Hudson-in-a-slightly-cloudy-mood face and replies, “We call the police.”And of course, they don’t; instead, the police, in the form of stalwart TomWilkinson, as a harried detective who’s got a personal stake in tracking downsome drug-running villains, come calling. Wilkinson’s character knows that thedead fella who was hiding the money has some very unpleasant associates indeed,as does the audience: this movie opens with a ruthless robbery/burn executed bysome nasties led by Sam Spruill. And he’s not the only one who wants the loot;the robbery victim, a new-villain-in-town-fresh-from-Africa played by theformidableOmar Syis also irritated. You’d thinkwith such a formidable group arrayed against him and his interests, Tom wouldfold, but were that the case, we’d have maybe a 20-minute movie. No, Tom digsin his heels, and various not-entirely-unpredictable twists ensue. Rather thanget super, super mad at Tom the way any sane person might be expected to, Annareveals herself to be something of a pushover by going all in with him. Mywife—I think I’ll keep her! If I don’t get her killed. “GoodPeople” is not an indifferently crafted movie. The script, byKelly Masterson(who also wrote the galvanic 2007Sidney Lumetthriller “Before The Devil KnowsYou’re Dead”) from a book byMarcus Sakey, gives the impression of having beena tight, lean one. The direction, by Danish-born Henrik Ruben Ganz, a veteranof the original European version of the TV series “The Killing,” is sharp andatmospheric, shot in nicely judged grades of blue and grey that give theproceedings a foreboding, near-funereal feel. And yet the film never catchesthe spark necessary to make it truly nail-biting. The climax, set in thefixer-upper house that’s caused Tom and Anna such grief, delivers a good numberof grisly jolts—ones that won’t be unfamiliar to anyone who knows the gleefullyheinous 1978 grindhouse classic “The Tool Box Murder,” but that’s probably (orhopefully) not a whole lot of people, so, you know—but again, not enough to putthe movie into any really effective high gear. It could be that Franco andHudson, while not phoning it in, bring personae that are just toofamiliar/conventional to spark a high level of viewer involvement. In anyevent, “Good People” ends up in the kind of no-man’s-land that no movie, leastof all a genre picture, wants to be in: it’s engaging enough while one iswatching it, but not distinctive enough to make it special, or, in this case,enthusiastically recommendable.