In “The TwoFaces of January,”Viggo Mortensenwields a cigarette with the authority ofBette Davisand all the other great smokers of studio-era Hollywood. Gazingfrom under heavy-lidded eyes and a hat brim pulled low, Mortensen looks like arelic from that era, and cinematographerMarcel Zyskindlights him as such. Thefilm is not only set in 1962, it looks as if it were made in 1962. Co-starsKirsten DunstandOscar Isaacadd to the verisimilitude of the period, as dothe Greek locations. But it’s Mortensen and his smokes that seal the deal. Puffingaway, he is dangerously sexy and morally dubious, the latter of which makesperfect sense as we are inPatricia Highsmithterritory. Advertisement Afteradapting “The Wings of the Dove” and “Drive” for other directors,Hossein Aminimakes his directorial debut with his take on Highsmith’s 1964 novel. For those unfamiliar,Highsmith created Tom Ripley and providedAlfred Hitchcockwith the sourcematerial for “Strangers on a Train.” The characters in “The Two Faces ofJanuary” are cut from that same amoral cloth. The men are quick to irrationaldisplays of emotion and jealousy, and though the women are more level-headed,they are also complicit in the evils those men do. Highsmith and Amini unleashthe angriest gods of fate on these people, trapping them in a deceitful web oftheir own making. The scenery is pretty; the outcome of the story, not so much. Chester MacFarland(Mortensen) and his wife Colette (Kirsten Dunst) are in Greece on vacation (orso they tell us) when they run into Rydal (Oscar Isaac). Rydal is a tour guide(or so he tells us) who speaks fluent Greek while fleecing his clueless femalecustomers out of their money. Rydal takes an immediate shine to Colette, but itappears he’s more in lust with Chester’s affluent lifestyle than his wife. Rydaloffers the MacFarlands a tour, and they reciprocate by inviting him to dinner. Rydal spinsa tragic yarn about how he wound up in Greece, a yarn that, to quote Birdie in “AllAbout Eve” has “everything but the bloodhounds snapping at his rear.” It’s notclear if we’re supposed to buy Rydal’s yarn, but it becomes very evident that Chesterlies to Rydal about what he does for a living. Turns out Chester is on the runfor swindling lots of investors out of money. When Chester’s past catches up tohim via a detective who visits his hotel, Chester’s actions have direconsequences for him and a clueless Rydal. Advertisement After Rydaldrops the MacFarlands back at their hotel, he notices Colette accidentally lefta piece of jewelry in the cab. Empowered by booze and horniness, Rydal makes avery wrong decision to bring it back to her. He buzzes the hotel room momentsafter Chester accidentally murders the detective. Chester convinces Rydal thatthe victim has merely passed out from drunkenness, and enlists the younger manto help him drag the detective back to his hotel room. Amini shoots this sequencelike the darkest of farces; Rydal is so hypnotized by beauty and wealth that hiscommon sense is overridden. When anothermurder occurs, Chester is more than happy to pin it on the sucker he thinks he’sfound in Rydal. However, Rydal proves to be as slippery and duplicitous asChester, and part of the pleasure of “The Two Faces of January” is watchingMortensen and Isaac execute their game of cat and mouse. Dunst isn’t given muchto do, but she makes the most of it by casting doubt on her innocence in mattersof business and marital fidelity. She provides the catalyst for the games ofmale one-upmanship, battles that lead them from Greece to Istanbul. “The TwoFaces of January” culminates in a bizarre series of events. I haven’t readHighsmith’s book, but I’m now compelled to do so, if only to see if her endingmatches the movie’s ending. I doubt it does, which isn’t a criticism. In fact,I found the ending fascinating. I won’t spoil it for you, but it is either anenormous deus ex machina or a subversively clever nod to the Hays Code rulesthat would have been very close to crumbling in the early '60s. (Or maybe it ISthe book’s ending?) If Amini’s goal was to make a movie that felt like athrowback to 1962, his ending puts a very fine point of closure on the idea. If not, the ending raises morequestions than it answers. Either way, it’s a great last scene for Mortensen, who manages to leave us conflictedabout Chester when the credits roll. This is one of Mortensen’s bestperformances, and “The Two Faces of January” is one gorgeously renderedold-school feature. Advertisement