When I was a kid I saw both David Lean's "Oliver Twist" and Carol Reed's  "Oliver!," and then promptly spent a summer plowing my way through  Dickens' book, which I hadn't read, hoping to step into the fantasy  launched by those films. After that, any story involving orphans held a  huge appeal, and if it also took place in Victorian-era England, well,  even better. It was a fantasy that lasted for years. "The Boxtrolls,"  the latest film from the Oregon-based stop-motion studio LAIKA (who  brought us "Coraline" and "ParaNorman"), reminded me of getting lost in  those vividly told and sometimes awful stories of children going up  against a cruel adult universe. Advertisement "The Boxtrolls," co-directed byGraham AnnableandAnthony Stacchi, has a  darkness to it—in the images and in its themes—a darkness that is  practically existential in nature. It's potentially heavy stuff for  children, but children have been thrilling to "heavy stuff" since  stories for children were invented. What "The Boxtrolls" does is create  an entire hierarchical world, with strict rules governing that  structure, and it introduces us to a cast of eccentric and often  grotesque characters who live and breathe in that fetid air. It's  gloriously inventive, wonderfully funny, and gorgeous to look at, the  screen filled with sometimes overwhelming detail. The universe "The  Boxtrolls" gives us is one both strange and familiar: a town that  exists in some kind of collective unconscious with its narrow streets, massive main square, teetering mansions and slimy alleyways. It's out of a  fairy tale; it's medieval Europe; it's Dickens or the films ofJean-Pierre Jeunet. Based loosely on "Here Be Monsters," the 2005 novel byAlan Snow, "The  Boxtrolls" takes place in a city called Cheesebridge, perched  precariously on the slopes of a dagger-shaped mountain. The town  worships cheese. Cheese is the equivalent to owning a fully-loaded  sports car. If you can afford to have tasting parties where you bring  out the latest Brie, you know you have made it. Lord Portley-Rind (Jared Harris) is the Mayor of Cheesebridge, and owner of a  "white hat" (the symbol of being an aristocrat). He has a small  red-haired daughter named Winnie (Elle Fanning). The fearful silly  people of Cheesebridge have been led to believe, through rumor and scary  bedtime stories, that the Boxtrolls, little creatures who come out at  night and pick through the trash, are going to terrorize the town, steal  their children, and eat them. It is Cheesebridge's version of The Bogeyman. At night, the "Snatchers", led by the snaggletoothed and bulbous-bellied  Archibald Snatcher (Ben Kingsley), come out, trolling the streets  looking for Boxtrolls. The goal is to exterminate the entire Boxtroll  population. Archibald Snatcher is unscrupulous, and all he wants in life  is to give up his "red hat" (lower-status) and join the "white hats."  That selfish motivation makes him do terrible terrible things. He is  accompanied by a gruesome trio of helpers: Mr. Gristle (Tracy Morgan),  Mr. Pickles (Richard Ayoade) and Mr. Trout (Nick Frost). Mr. Gristle  cackles with sociopathic glee at the thought of exterminating the  Boxtrolls and is so emotionally blunted he can only repeat the last word  of whatever was said to him. Mr. Pickles and Mr. Trout, however, are in  the midst of an ongoing crisis of conscience. At first, they believe  they are on the side of law and order, they are the "good guys."  Increasingly, though, they're not so sure, and they try to reassure one  another with unconvincing supportive statements. Advertisement Meanwhile, we meet the Boxtrolls. The Boxtroll lair is a  beautifully-imagined space: a gigantic cave, crammed full of found  objects, gears, lightbulbs and toasters; things thrown away by the  Cheesebridge residents. The Boxtrolls speak, but we don't understand  their language, and there are no subtitles. The Boxtrolls exist as  beautiful evidence of the sheer power and clarity of pantomime. They  babble and gurgle to one another, and we understand every word. Among the  Boxtrolls is a little boy named Eggs (Isaac Hempstead Wright), named  so because that's the word on the box he wears like a bulky sweater.  Eggs' Boxtroll mentor is a kindly, worried little creature named Fish  (Dee Bradley Baker), who looks suspiciously likeAbe Vigoda(a  connection with his Boxtroll name?) The two play music together. They  are friends. Eggs has always lived with the Boxtrolls, and thinks he is a  Boxtroll. LAIKA has outdone itself in its imagining of this complex world. There's  a ballroom dance in Lord Portley-Rind's mansion that has to be seen to  be believed. At times, we see it from Winnie's perspective, the big  swooping skirts at her eye level whooshing by her, and other times, the  camera circles up to look down on the twirling colorful couples. The  streets of Cheesebridge are steep and twisting, with lonely streetlights  struggling to emanate their light through the blue gloom. There is a  gigantic bouncing cheese wheel, catapulting itself down the slopes like  some engine of doom and destruction, both hilarious and scary. After a  night of scavenging, the Boxtrolls stack themselves into a sleeping  formation, and, overhead, the bare lightbulbs they have hung from the dirt  ceiling turn their lair into a place of wonder and magic. These images  have great emotional resonance. The details of the costumes are amazing,  the frayed stitching on Snatcher's waistcoat, the tiered ruffles of  Winnie's pink dress, the gleaming ridiculous badges sewn onto the front  of Portley-Rind's coat. The images do not have a modern gleam, they are  not slick. They feel slightly tattered, hand-made, deteriorating. Without being didactic, "The Boxtrolls" presents the dangers of a  hierarchical society, separated out into high-status and low, and also  has some very interesting and moving things to say about identity,  family, and morality. There is a suggestion that a moral compass exists  on its own, whether it has been nurtured in us or not. Critical thinking  skills means you look around and evaluate reality based on the evidence  right in front of you. The residents of Cheesebridge, drowning in myth,  rumor, and the comfort of intermittent mob violence against the  Boxtrolls, are unable to do that. But Winnie slowly realizes she has  been lied to her whole life. She is able to evaluate her world and see  that the way things are set up is wrong and unfair. "The Boxtrolls" is a beautiful example of the potential in LAIKA's  stop-motion approach, and the images onscreen are tactile and layered.  But, as always, it's the story that really matters, and the story told  here is funny, ugly, poignant and true.Advertisement