"Men,Women and Children" is a film that wants to make a grand and profoundstatement about where we are as a society today; how moderntechnology has affected human relationships by showing how the very toolstheoretically designed to bring people together have instead driven them furtherinto their own individual online worlds filled with hardcore pornography,violent video games, potentially dangerous chat-mates and whatever that Tumblrthing is. A potentially interesting premise is handled sobadly that what might have been a provocative drama quickly andirrevocably devolves into the technological equivalent of the old anti-dopechestnut "Reefer Madness," squandering the efforts of a strong and talented cast strugglingmightily to make something of the ridiculously trite material. Advertisement Based onthe novel by Chad Kulgen, Reitman's adaptation is set in a small Texas town, and follows agroup of high school students and their parents whose lives have been overrunwith high-tech gadgets and all the troubles they can inspire. Donny (AdamSandler) is an ordinary guy whose dissatisfaction with his marriage leads him first to straightforward internet pornography and later to an escortservice for a fling; little does he suspect that wife Helen (Rosemarie DeWitt)is following a similar mental trajectory. Their son, Chris (Travis Trope),has become so versed in pornography that direct human contact with a girl is nolonger enough to excite him—a condition that reaches a head, so to speak, whensexpot cheerleader Hannah (Olivia Crocicchia) makes a play for him. Hannah, bythe way, is an aspiring starlet who has a website filled with provocativephotos for her "fans," and if you are curious as to where her motheris, it turns out than Mom (Judy Greer) runs the site and takes the photos inthe hopes of giving her daughter the Hollywood career that was denied her yearsearlier. Mom, bythe way, is beginning to see Kent (Dean Norris), who is still reeling from hiswife's recent abandonment of him and his son, school football star Tim (AnselElgort). As a result of his mother's absence, Tim has developed an existentialfunk that leads him to quit the team and start spending his time playing videogames and pursuing the school's requisite quirky outsider girl—you can tellbecause she reads actual books—Brandy (Kaitlyn Dever). Brandy, alas, is livingunder the yoke of her wildly overprotective mother, Patricia (Jennifer Garner),who not only monitors her every online move right down to the number ofkeystrokes but leads a neighborhood discussion group dedicated to warning aboutthe hidden dangers of being online. ("I want to give you a pamphlet aboutthe dangers of selfies.") Finally, there is Allison (Elena Kampouris), ayoung girl whose desire to be thin has driven her to an eating disorder and awebsite where other anorexics offer inspiration as she starves herself. All ofthis activity is being monitored by an unseen narrator (Emma Thompson), whomuses about the frivolity of our behavior while Voyager hurtles through spacewith its records showing mankind at his best. Intheory, "Men, Women and Children" sounds like it has all the makingsof a promising drama about contemporary mores in our social media-saturatedculture, but, in practice, it fumbles the ball in virtually every department. Allof the various interconnecting stories are shallowly conceived morality playsin which the characters are forced to march their way towards potentiallytragic denouements that can be seen coming a mile away and all appear to havebeen taken directly from a guidebook highlighting the perils of the Internetpenned in 1999. At one point, Patricia is mocked for relating an urban legendabout the perils of extended online usage, but the film more often than notseems to be sharing her hysterical perspective on the subject. Advertisement Nearly all the characters are unlikable, whichis not necessarily a problem, and uninteresting, which is. Therefore, itbecomes difficult to care about what happens to the vast majority of them. Thereis also a smugness to the proceedings that is difficult to get behind,especially in Thompson's incredibly arch and largely unnecessary narration. Andin a desperate attempt to generate some kind of sympathy from viewers withoutactually earning it, the screenplay even shoehorns in such things as 9/11 andCarl Sagan's "Pale Blue Dot" to try to move people. While thecharacters on the screen desperately fumble for the answers to theirtechnological anomie, people in the audience will instead be desperately fumblingfor the answer to the question of what is going on with the career ofco-writer/directorJason Reitman. Over the course of his first fourfilms—"Thank You for Smoking," "Juno," "Up in theAir" and "Young Adult," quite possibly one of the best Americanfilms of recent years that you have not yet seen—Reitman proved himself to beboth an acerbic social satirist of the highest order and an unusually empathicstoryteller. He did stumble last year with "Labor Day," the mawkishmelodrama that saw him abandoning the altar ofBilly Wilderto attempt to makea modern-day version of aDouglas Sirkweepie, but even though that one didn'twork, it was more boring that awful (save for its instant camp classicpie-making sequence) and could be written off as a noble but dumb attempt byReitman to expand his artistic palette. Although "Men, Women and Children"would seem to offer opportunities for slashing satire, Reitman and co-writerErin Cressida Wilsonappear to have taking several pages from theStanley Kramerplaybook, delivering a film that all but flashes signs warning viewers ofimpending moral messages. For example, there is a scene in which the starlet's mom gets badnews regarding her daughter's website while shopping at the butcher's area ofthe grocery store—just to make sure everyone gets the point, the scene ends ona giant sign that reads "MEAT."Advertisement What isreally frustrating about "Men, Women and Children" is that there areactually some good performances here from actors trying to bring this gibberishto life. On the grown-up side of things,Adam Sandleris effective in astraight dramatic part and once again suggests that he has the makings of afine dramatic actor when he stops making glorified home movies with his buddiesand genuinely applies himself. As the key young couple, Kaitlyn Dever, who wasso good in "Short Term 12," andAnsel Elgortmake the most of what they have been given towork with here, and Elena Kampouris is also affecting at times as the anorexic. It is just too bad that the same thing thathas happened to so many young people traveling the information superhighwayover the years has happened to these young actors—they put their trust and faith in someonewho seemed to have their best intentions at heart, did some embarrassing thingsin front of cameras (though not as embarrassing as the things done behind them),and now they will have to live with the results of their decisions for the restof their lives, no matter how many times they try to scrub their IMDBfilmographies.