There aremoments in “Time is Illmatic” where the camerawork flows like the smoothest MCnavigating a difficult verse; one marvels at the technique yet is neverdistracted from the story being told. Director One9 and his co-editors DavidZieff and John Kane opt for a style that is neither kinetic nor flashy.Instead, they establish a sense of presence, of being so in the moment thateven the occasional visual effect feels natural and unaffected. The cameraroams the way the human eye would, yet it knows the power of stillness, of lettingthe image linger and rest. These documentarians masterfully construct theirvision to elevate and serve their subject. The result is more low-key than onemight expect from a movie about rap. It is also more powerful, bypassing theexpected artist braggadocio to stand on the rarely visited street corner ofsociology and hip-hop music. Advertisement The subjectof “Time is Illmatic” is the 1994 album, “Illmatic,” the debut work by therapper whose government name is Nasir Jones. Nas, as he’s known in the musical universe,is the son of Olu Dara, a blues musician from Natchez, Mississippi and AnnJones, a postal worker from North Carolina. His parents relocated him and hisbrother Jabari to the Queensbridge Housing Project in Long Island City, Queens,which is where much of “Time Is Illmatic” takes place. “To survivehere with a family was hell,” says Dara of Queensbridge. “Especially if you hadno help. We had no help.” Much of thefilm is people telling stories as they navigate the sidewalks and inhabitantsof Queensbridge—this is more a walking documentary than a talking heads one—andOne9’s camera is there with them, drifting around and settling like theproverbial fly on the wall. When the credits roll, viewers will realize that “Timeis Illmatic” represents and explores not only the album but also theenvironment that fostered it. Walking in,one might expect “Time is Illmatic” to ramble on about how successful “Illmatic”is. After 20 years, the album remains one of the most influential rap albumsever produced. We get the occasional artist likeAlicia KeysorErykah Baduspeaking of how the work influenced them, as well as words from the producersof several tracks on “Illmatic.” But the film doesn’t dwell on sales, praise andstudio time. The primary question “Time is Illmatic” wishes to focus on isn’t “howdid Nas do it?” but “why did Nas do it?” Evidence that the film is part historylesson occurs early on: The first mention of Queensbridge Projects isaccompanied by a picture of FDR signing a public housing bill and footage of NYCmayor Fiorello LaGuardia laying cement at the foundation of The Bridge’s first buildingin 1939. Footage ofNas prowling the stage as he performs many of the tracks from “Illmatic” arecontrasted with the soft-spoken, introspective man who serves as our maincharacter. “Time is Illmatic” films him in several locations, from the couch inhis house, to his car, to his old stomping grounds in the projects. Asexpected, he is a gifted storyteller, spinning yarns about hanging out with hisbest friend, Ill Will, and how excited they were when a song by MC Shan about theirneighborhood dropped. He speaks highly of his late mother, whose presence andinfluence haunt “Time is Illmatic,” and is candid about the neighborhood that nurtured,inspired and threatened him. Advertisement The filmmakersinterview Nas’s second grade teacher, Mrs. Braconi, which at first seems like acutesy device to shed light on what young Nas was like. In actuality, it’s ajumping off point for commentary about the public school system in the 1980’s.Mrs. Braconi points out how enthusiastic and artistically expressive Nas was, thenwe learn that Nas left school in 9thgrade. “When the schools haveno money, you get a no money education,” Nas tells us, comparing his highschool to an overcrowded prison where the students learned little. A no moneyeducation leads to no money post-education, which leads to some of the hardchoices Nas discusses in his songs. Regardingthose songs, Nas and several of his producers speak of how their environmentshaped what “Illlmatic” wants to say about the lives of the underprivileged andunderrepresented. Lyrics and songs are studied with a level of introspectionand detail rarely seen in any mainstream media discussion about rap. Nas explainsthe reason why “One Love” unfolds in epistolary form, and why BrianDePalma’s “Scarface” influenced “The World Is Yours.” Peoplelike Pete Rock and Q-Tip remind us that, long before rap concerned itself withbeing fancy, a famous rapper once noted that it was “CNN for brown people.” It’seasy to dismiss the violent, profane lyrics on “Illmatic” as mere thuggery onlyif the album is abstracted from the harsh realities Nas and other rappersexperienced. Q-Tip wisely draws our attention to the slivers of hope that keepbreaking through in the album’s most turbulent songs. In additionto the celebrities and producers, we also meet Nas’s brother Jabari, who goesby the name Jungle. As any brother is wont to do, he provides color commentaryand clarifying, objective detail about his famous sibling. One9 follows himthrough the neighborhood as he talks about some of the events and dailyroutines that ultimately populated many of the lyrics on “Illmatic.” It is Junglewho is tasked with some of the most effective moments in “Time is Illmatic,”from previewing us on the tragic fate of Ill Will to revealing what happened tomany of the people who posed for a group picture during the photo shoot for “Illmatic.” Advertisement One9 alsofollows Nas in Queensbridge, where his comfort level has no hint of fakery. AsI know firsthand, when you leave your ‘hood, you take it with you in yourheart. When you return, you easily fall back into its cadences as if you’dnever left. As you roam, memories of joy co-exist with more traumatic ones, andyou reconnect with those you knew. Nas speaks with no hint of celebrity tofolks, pausing to provide some inspiring words to a kid who shares his name. “AllNasirs are kings,” he tells the kid before stooping down to take a picture withhim. “Every hoodis haunted by the brothers that walked through there,” Nas tells us. “Theessence of them is still there.” He says he wrote “Illmatic” as “something thatwas proof that I was here.” Moments like this provide “Time is Illmatic” with astrong representation of how one’s world influences one’s art, and as someonewho shared some of the same experiences “Illmatic” describes while growing up inmy own ‘hood, I was extremely moved. Viewers and fans will surely get theirshare of sing-a-long moments in the concert footage, but they’ll leave moreknowledgeable about, or reminded of, the culture from which those great songsevolved.