A little boy named Ben goes to sleep in his room, surrounded by his toys  and magnifying glass, his unfinished drawings and scattered crayons.  Once his eyes finally close, the crayons pop to life. They take  a roll call and then leap into their crayon box,  which acts as a psychedelically-colored wormhole leading to a place called  "Color City," a land populated only by crayons. Color City is so  garishly colored that you ache for the grey crayon to bust a move and cover  it all with fog to give your eyes a break. "The Hero of Color  City," directed byFrank Gladstone, feels as though it was written by a  committee, and so it's not a surprise to see five  screenwriters listed in the credits. Even if you allow for the the fact that the film is geared towards the 5-year-old set, it's still a pretty  dreary experience, made even more so by screamingly vivid colors, uninspiring animation and grating songs. Advertisement Each crayon has a distinct personality, and the only moments of  originality emerge from those quirks. There's the lead, Yellow  (Christina Ricci), who is scared of everything. Green (Jess Harnell) is a  boring fuddy-duddy who pontificates about everything. Brown (Tom  Lowell) is a cowboy with a thick whiteSam Elliottmustache. Blue (Wayne  Brady) is extroverted and confident. Red (Rosie Perez) is hot-tempered  and feisty. The crayons compete over what Ben has "used" each of them  for in his various drawings. Poor Black (David Kaye) is the Eeyore of  the group, throwing in deadpan comments showing his bleak outlook: "All  Ben ever uses me for is night." Or "Once in a while, I'm an outline." At  least Black gets used. The white crayon's "head" is still a pointy tip  because Ben never uses White at all! Their nightly jaunts to Color City have seemingly no point except to  hang out with their own kind. They go visit a "spa" (run by a pink  crayon with a French accent) to get their tips re-shaped. They have to  be back before Ben wakes up, so they cram in as much Crayon-only time as  possible. But this particular trip to Color City goes awry because the  crayons are followed through the wormhole by two unfinished drawings of  Ben's, a giant king named King Scrawl and his flying round-bodied  sidekick named Gnat (Craig Ferguson). These unfinished drawings yearn to  be colored. It's not right that they remain just outlines. But the  residents of Color City treat these benign creatures as horrifying  interlopers, monsters that must be crushed and destroyed. There's quite a bit of plot, and "The Hero of Color City" gets bogged  down in it, lacking the imagination to create something alive. The  "monsters" try to get the attention of the crayons by clogging up the  Rainbow Waterfall, the source of all the color in Color City. The  situation is dire. Without color, who would the crayons be? Of what use  will they be anymore if they fade? They band together and set out on a  "Heart of Darkness" type journey on a boat, to bring down the monsters  causing so much trouble. What is the story here? Not the plot, but the  story. It seems that "The Hero of Color City" wants, ultimately, to be  about how Yellow has to stop being "yellow", get over her fear of  everything and rise to the occasion courageously. Will she succeed? Will  she fail? But Yellow isn't a character. She's just a character trait.  And the film doesn't give the journey (actual and emotional) any sense  of high stakes. It's all just one thing happening after another,  interspersed by chirpy repetitive songs. Advertisement All of the characters are so one-note that the movie becomes formulaic almost  instantly. Some big event goes down, and inevitably we get Yellow  cringing in the corner, Blue cracking a joke, Black moaning about how  they are all doomed, Red making some feisty comment, and Brown trying to  round them all up with a lasso of commands. One need only consider "Toy Story"—with its depth of characterization, its  life-or-death stakes, and age-appropriate humor  that ends up working for all ages—to remember that films for children  do not need to be so simplistic.