A guy and a girl bicycle slowly through the streets of  Copenhagen, the colored buildings and wide canals their placid and  beautiful backdrop. The sun is setting, the shadows lengthening, making  the city seem less like an actual place than a dream space, one where  truth can come out, where the regular rules of everyday life no longer  apply, where somethingelseis possible. In its best  moments, "Copenhagen," the debut feature ofMark Raso, who also wrote  the script, takes place in that dream space. Advertisement On the surface, the film sounds like Richard Linklater's "Before  Sunrise" or any number of other meet-cute-in-a-foreign-city stories.  But very quickly, other things start to come to the surface, things that  don't quite fit. The tension between the expectations that arise due to the familiar genre and what is actually happening onscreen makes "Copenhagen" special, and a bit strange. There's also  the undeniable fact that the girl in the film is, in actuality, agirl. She's half the age of William, the lead  character. So any possibility of romance is distinctly illegal in  nature. "Copenhagen" doesn't shy away from that, and is unafraid to  allow that queasy reality to come to the surface. The film doesn't  entirely work, but sometimes things that don't entirely work are  interesting, bringing tension and unresolved issues that start to take  over the film, almost by stealth. It's nice to watch something that  isn'tneat, that doesn't play it safe. William (Gethin Anthony) and his pal Jeremy (Sebastian Armesto) are  traveling through Europe, crashing in youth hostels. The whole point of  the trip is to end up in Copenhagen, where William can try to track down  the grandfather he's never met. William's dad was abandoned by his  father. And William's dad was no great shakes in the father department  either. William has a lot of free-floating resentment and rage because  of that. He found an unsent letter his father wrote to his grandfather.  It's in Danish so he has no idea what it says, but he wants to deliver  the letter, decades after it was written. You get the sense that William  is not looking for a loving reconciliation but confirmation that father  figures suck. The trip immediately goes off the rails because Jeremy has brought along  a girlfriend. William is so hostile and unpleasant from the get-go that  it starts to call into question his presence as the lead of the film.  He's nasty to Jeremy's girlfriend in a particularly lecherous way; he's  vicious to Jeremy when they argue about her; he's a whiny petulant  figure. This nastiness is not just an attitude, it's William's default  personality. Gethin Anthony is excellent in that he does not soft-pedal  these qualities, and does not try to plead his character's case for the  audience. He allows William to be as nasty as he is written. It can make  "Copenhagen" a trying experience, but there is interesting stuff on the  other side of it. Advertisement After William and Jeremy part ways, William is left to his own devices  in Copenhagen. He needs to find the address on the envelope because he thinks maybe his grandfather still lives there. His initial queries are unsuccessful.  Everything changes when he meets Effy (Frederikke Dahl Hansen), a  waitress in the hotel cafe where he is staying. She clumsily spills  coffee on his table, and he doesn't seem to realize that it is supposed  to be a meet-cute moment because he is rude and ungracious in response.  In a later encounter, he tells her about his search for his grandfather  and her interest is piqued. To Effy, it's kind of like a detective  story, and she takes the lead: she knows that address on the envelope,  she wants them to go check it out together. Effy is intelligent, resourceful, and seems to have unlimited amounts of  time to wander around Copenhagen with this rude American man, tracking  down leads. At first it seems that Effy will be forced to take on the  burden of having to be the now-predictable Manic Pixie Dream Girl: "the  one" whose only purpose in life is to lighten up the gloomy male lead.  She has a pink plastic camera and is impulsive to the point of  recklessness. But Effy, like  William, does not quite fit into the genre requirements. She starts to  emerge as an individual. Much of this is due to the grounded performance  from Hansen. She suggests that Effy is not complete yet. She's still in  formation, acting a role a little bit, as young girls sometimes do. There's a beautiful and strange scene where Effy takes William into one  of the museums in Copenhagen. She wants to show him something. It's a  bust from ancient times, a female, and she moves to stand right next to  it, her silhouette and the bust's silhouette highlighted by the thin  white stream of light coming in from the window. Mark Raso allows that  image of the two heads side by side to just sit there for a long time,  still and silent. As the image settles, it becomes clear that Effy and  the bust are practically identical twins. Effy whispers, "I've never  shown this to anyone." William runs his fingers over the bust's face, in  wonder at the resemblance. There's an eroticism in the moment,  problematic and uncomfortable due to the age discrepancy. Advertisement What is so beautiful about that scene, though, is that it is beyond  meaning. The image onscreen is what is important, and what it might mean  is up for grabs. It makes Effy's inner life a place of mystery and  power. She has gone to this museum a lot to visit her doppelgänger. She  has wondered about that woman in ancient Greece or Rome, wondered at the  connection. She feels in touch with something eternal in herself. None  of this is stated explicitly but it pulses off the screen. What one may expect to happen does not exactly go down as planned.  "Copenhagen" remains true to its own original and somewhat prickly  course. There are moments when it is not clear at all why Effy is even  choosing to hang out with William, who is rude and combative (in moments  big and small). But she wants to know what happened to William's  grandfather. Over the course of the film an interesting thing starts  happening. William starts to take responsibility for the words he uses.  He starts to actually listen to himself and do his best to change  course. A lifetime of being a rude rage-boy will not vanish overnight,  and a lesser film would have made it Effy's job to show him the better  way. But "Copenhagen" isn't really about that. Nobody can save you. You  have to save yourself. Talented cinematographerAlan Poongives us dreamy beautiful shots of  the city, its buildings, canals, cobblestone alleyways, crowded  nightclubs. His work helps ground the film. "Copenhagen" knows life is  complex, and knows that most of us are messes most of the time.  Hopefully we all do our best and try not to hurt one another; try to be  kind. William doesn't quite get that, not yet, because he's too self-righteous  and pissed off. But the film is, in many ways, his lurching journey  towards starting to understand that his character is up to him and him  alone.