What is it aboutStephen King’s novels and short storiesthat so often make their transition to the screen rocky, to say the least? Evenwhen he adapts, as he does with “A Good Marriage,” starringJoan AllenandAnthony LaPaglia, the resulting product regularly fails to capture the breadthof his gifts as a storyteller. Perhaps it’s because so many of King’s bestnarratives involve something easier to relate to in the form of the writtenword than recreated on film: the horror behind the picket fence. Little isscarier than the realization that your husband (“The Shining”), rescuer (“Misery”),car (“Christine”) or even family pet (“Cujo”) are not what they seem. And yetthat same identifiable horror in his fiction often falls flat in film. Flat isthe kindest way to describe “A Good Marriage,” a King novella turned featurethat could have worked as a short or an episode of “Masters of Horror” buttruly tests viewer patience at 102 minutes. It’s arguably the dullest King filmyet, despite solid work by LaPaglia to save it and a decent set-up that goesabsolutely nowhere. Advertisement I remember seeingGeorge Sluizer’s “The Vanishing” at ayoung enough age to be disturbed not just by its legendary ending but by thevery concept that a madman could also be a family man. Wait, not all serialkillers are drooling maniacs? I might be living next door to one? And he mighthave a wife? And kids?!?!?! How is that possible? King reportedly was inspiredby the fact that The BTK Killer had a wife, who dealt with a lot of negativepress when his binding/torturing/killing came to light. How could she not haveknown? He reimagines BTK as “Beadie,” a man who has killed a dozenyoung women in Maine. After Bob (LaPaglia) goes out of town on anothercollectible coin-hunting mission tied in with work, longtime wife Darcy (Allen)happens upon a BDSM magazine in the garage. She digs a little deeper, and shefinds a box with driver’s licenses of the dead girls. She starts putting ittogether. Bob is Beadie. What will she do? Will she confront him? How will sheprotect her three kids from the pain sure to come? “A Good Marriage,” at its best, should be a war of willsbetween a maniac and the wife who just learned she has loved a maniac. And yet thiswar is surprisingly, even shockingly dull. It's filmed like a TV movie, with the central setting of Bob & Darcy's house feeling bizarrely like a set. Nothing in this world is lived in. There are no stakes. There's no reason to care.Part of the problem is both in theway Darcy is crafted in the screenplay and the choices made by Allen inpresenting her. This Darcy is cold, and almost callous at times. I simply neverbelieved her dilemma. And if that’s true, all of “A Good Marriage” falls apart.LaPaglia does better work, almost finding a dark current of Coen-esque blackcomedy in the coin-collecting lunatic. And that right there is a big problem—whenyou find the BTK Killer more interesting than the wife who you need to root forin her efforts to stop him. Advertisement