A handsomely mounted, never-less-than conspicuouslyintelligent but ultimately too-conventional historical drama, “The Liberator”shoehorns the epic life of early 19th-century South American revolutionary SimónBolivar into two hours of intermittently powerful cinema. The movie’s openingsequence gives the viewer all the movie’s strengths and weaknesses in sketchform. On a dark night, a powerful man enters a guarded manse; the camerafollows him from behind. A title tells the viewers that it’s 1828. The manhands his sword to one aide; hands a piece of laundry to a maid. Messages aredelivered. Brief conversations are held, in Spanish and English. The man, animportant military and political figure, finally gets to the room he’s lookingfor. A woman waits for him there. “Now I’ve got you,” the woman says, and thecouple begins a clinch. But wait. The house is suddenly under siege. Theman—yes, it’s Simón Bolivar—must leap from a window to escape. He tries to takethe woman with him. “They’re not here for me,” she protests. Out he goes. Thetorrential rain begins, as does a flashback that’s intercut with the immediateaction: young Simon coping with the death of a parent, fleeing to the arms of aslave on his estate. Now adult Bolivar runs, as the music, by Gustavo Dudamel,grows more lushly urgent and heroic, and a man on horseback says of Bolivar,“He must die tonight.”Advertisement Does he? Will he? Well, the movie then flashes further back,depicting young man Bolivar in Spain, where he beats Prince Ferdinand atbadminton, and the Prince doesn’t take it well. (That’s what they callforeshadowing, as the Prince will someday become the King that Bolivar leadshis rebels against.) Bolivar also finds the first love of his life at thisaffair, and brings her back to Venezuela to wed him. The movie’s firsthalf-hour sees Bolivar as more a lover than fighter, and the stolid, oak-likephysicalityEdgar Ramirezbrings to the role contrasts well with the delicacyof Maria Valverde. (Ramirez, readers may recall, played a rather moremalevolent manifestation of radicalism inOlivier Assayas’ epic “Carlos” a fewyears back.) Unhappy circumstances,though, soon find Bolivar leading a dissolute life in Paris, with his formertutor accusing him of selling out. A fortuitous meeting with Martin Torkington,a British banker of muddy motives (played with a nice approximation of Old OldWorld smarm byDanny Huston) helps set Bolivar on the path to revolutionaryaction in his home country, and a dream of an independent, united SouthAmerica. Anyone with a map of that continent knows that Bolivar wasunable to achieve that aim, although he is nevertheless still called “TheLiberator” throughout South America to this day. WriterTimothy J. Sexton,director Alberto Arvelo and actor/executive producer Ramírez have done duediligence to insure that their liberator is a creature of more than just charismaand bravery; he’s thoughtful to a fault, and his biggest character flaw asdepicted here is that he’s too fair-minded to act with the ruthlessnessnecessary to get what he wants. Bolivar’s story, which is replete withsetbacks, exile, and other complications, sometimes feels rushed by this movie.The scene in which the Liberator’s largely unarmed army of diverse freedomfighters (the movie is scrupulous in depicting many persons of color and womenas among their number) practically sacrifices itself en masse in order to wrestthe strategically crucial city of Bogota from the Spanish is a spectacularlyplayed scene both dramatically and cinematically, but Arvelo can’t spare thetime to make its implications more deeply felt. I know, I know—it sounds as ifI’m complaining that the movie is too short. Perhaps it is.