A movie about the rapture starringNicolas Cageshould bewackier than “Left Behind.” It should have more smoldering panic bursting intofull-blown freak-outs. It should have more passion, more intensity. It should havemore bees. Yes, Cage’s howl-inducing remake of ‘The Wicker Man” from2006 actually feels like a legitimately good time compared to this dull groanerabout the end times. It’s a remake too: a version of “Left Behind” starringKirk Cameronquickly came and went from theaters in 2001, followed by a coupleof straight-to-DVD sequels. All are based on the apocalyptic novels by Jerry B.Jenkins and Tim LaHaye. Advertisement Christian readers and audiences are the base here, but it’shard to imagine that this incarnation of the story will persuade anyone else tofind the Lord unless they’re sitting in the theater praying for thedialogue or special effects to improve. This isessentially an “Airport” movie with an Evangelical spin, but it lacks theself-awareness to turn such a wild concept into a guilty pleasure. DirectorVic Armstrong, a longtime stuntman making only hissecond feature (and his first in a couple of decades), had a larger budget thanthe original's, and a more established star in the lead. None ofthat shows up on screen. The "big" set pieces look small and chintzy, thelighting is hard and flat, and the pacing is a monotonous back-and-forth betweenan airplane in the skies across the Atlantic and the chaos on the ground below. But the more serious disappointment comes from Cage’sperformance. As the awesomely named Rayford Steele, a philandering airlinepilot who sees the light as the end is nigh, Cage needed to bring thewild-eyed, full-bore crazy. This has been his bread and butter of late, andit’s been a thoroughly enjoyable career shift. Instead, he’s oddly inert as the movie's voice of reason. Looking distractingly rubbery with a helmet of fake, darkhair, he seems to have been Photoshopped into the film. His presence is sostrangely awkward and unconvincing. Then again, the script fromPaul Lalonde(who also producedthe original “Left Behind” movies) andJohn Patusdoesn’t exactly give him or the rest of the cast much to work with. It’s full of flat character types andblandly expository dialogue.At the film’s start, Rayford’s daughter, Chloe (the perkyCassi Thomson), has come home from college for the weekend for her dad’sbirthday. But Rayford got a last-minute assignment to fly from New York toLondon overnight, which will keep him away all that time. At least that’s whathe told his wife Irene (     Lea Thompson    ), who’s no fun anymore now that she’sfound Jesus and is urging everyone around her to do the same. (The camera lingers asIrene tosses her gardening gloves on top of her ever-present Bible.) His realplan is to seduce a hot, blonde flight attendant (     Nicky Whelan    ) over theweekend, beginning with prime tickets to see U2.Advertisement This is actually a vaguely intriguing premise: What happensto a marriage when one spouse undergoes a religious conversion and the otherdoes not? It seems similar to what happens when one spouse gets sober and theother keeps drinking. What sort of wedge does this create? How does the familysurvive? But these aren’t the questions “Left Behind” cares to ponder. Armageddon is on the horizon. Anyway, Chloe and her dad have a brief, stilted conversationin the airport waiting area between her arrival and his departure. Being theskeptic that she is, she also has a confrontation about religion with a womanwho’s just bought a book about God at the bookstore. Chloe also finds time fora long chat with hunky, hotshot TV news correspondent Buck Williams, who happensto be a passenger on Rayford’s flight to London. (Chad Michael Murraytakesover the role Cameron played in the original. I’d say that’s an improvement.) There's a lot of sitting around and talking in “Left Behind.” But then! Out of nowhere, God starts calling the pure ofheart to heaven: children, mostly, but also people who have the words BIBLESTUDY written in their calendars in big capital letters. At first, no one realizes thisis God’s doing. People just disappear, leaving their clothes andbelongings in a pile where they once stood, including Chloe’s little brother and(of course) her mom. Pandemonium ensues as millions go missing worldwide–or atleast, implied pandemonium. This includes a school bus driving off an overpassand a small plane crashing into a shopping mall parking lot. There is zerofinesse to these supposedly dramatic images. Mostly, Armstrong gives us a lotof people running around, flailing their hands in the air. Meanwhile, up in the sky, folks start disappearing, too–including a flight attendant and Rayford’s second-in-command. (Guess this meansGod really is his co-pilot.) The barely sketched-out passengers in first classstart panicking and bickering, including a Texas businessman, an Asianconspiracy theorist and a drugged-up heiress. Former “American Idol” winnerJordin Sparksfares poorly as a paranoid, unstable mom who somehow smuggled ahandgun on the plane. Worst of all is the consistent yammering betweena kindly Muslim and a surly little person. The movie cuts to them repeatedlyfor comic relief, but it’s painfully unfunny every time. Advertisement “Left Behind” finally edges toward an enjoyable level ofinsanity as it reaches its conclusion. I wouldn’t dream of giving awaythe details–mysterious ways, and all–but I will say that it involves thepetite Chloe driving a steamroller in the dead of night on a deserted stretchof highway that’s under construction. Still, for a movie that spells everything out, it’s unclearwhy God chose this particular moment to inflict his wrath upon the masses. Was it because Rayford tried to forsake his wedding vows with a flirty flight attendant at aU2 show? Still, if you’re a true believer, it’s a beautiful day.