A word of advice for horror movie producers: If you’re goingto riff on ‘70s horror classics like “The Omen” and “Rosemary’s Baby,” makesure to look more deeply at why those films connected with viewers rather than just stealing their imagery. Merely mimickingthem aesthetically is a hollow exercise, and proof that you don’t understandthat horror is more than a series of jump cuts and frightening images. Horror,at its best, taps into something deeper. There’s nothing deep about “Annabelle,”the spin-off of “The Conjuring.” It offers surface level scares without the undercurrentof humanity needed to make them register. DirectorJohn R. Leonettiand writerGary Daubermanwork proficiently enough on a technical level to craft a few scenes that get theheart racing, but the climax of “Annabelle” is so misguided, silly and even offensive that any excuse genre fans may beinclined to make for the mediocre hour-and-a half that precedes it will likely turn to rage. Advertisement For the record—and it’s worth noting because of how angryour original review of “The Conjuring” still makes fans of that film—I was a fan ofJames Wan’s 2013 ghost story. The director took a giant leap forward in thatwork, proving he understands numerous elements that modern horror directorsignore, such as the use of sounddesign and setting to create tension. These elements are discarded in “Annabelle." If you saw the 2013 hit, you remember the creepy doll that wouldn’t go away. Ghostbusters Lorraine and Ed Warren kept Annabelle in alocked case, recognizing the true evil held within. How did Annabelle go from arelatively harmless but totally creepy doll to a tool of the devil? “Annabelle”tries to tell that story, using the Manson Murders and “Rosemary’s Baby” as abackdrop. Some may be tempted to write off “Annabelle” on concept alone, inthat it’s something of a cash grab, like a straight-to-video sequeldesigned to strike while a hit predecessor's iron is still hot. Still, I would arguethat “Annabelle” has the core of a good film within it. It's about how changing times in the ‘70s, when otherwise safe neighborhood dwellersstarted locking their doors and apartment denizens began to suspect theirneighbors; the iconography of youth became sinister.You can sense shreds of this idea in “Annabelle,” but the film doesn't develop them. We learn that Annabelle was owned by a lovely young couplenamed Mia (Annabelle Wallis) and John (Ward Horton). In the run-up to the birth of their first child, John gave his wife thedoll as a part of her extensive collection. As Mia nears her due date, the couple faces unimaginablehorror in the form of a pair of Satanic cultists who break in, stab Mia in thebelly, and end up dead in their home. The female cultist happens to be namedAnnabelle Higgins, and some of her blood lands on the doll Annabelle. Beforeyou know it, Mia is seeing shadowy figures on the stairs, hearing noises in thenight and realizing that something evil wants her baby. Thematically, nothing in “Annabelle” is developed beyond a level that might make it suitable for horror movie manipulations. When we meet religious characters like Father Perez (Tony Amendola), “Annabelle” threatens to take on some "The Exorcist" or "The Omen"-like undertones, chronicling a time when some felt that Americans lost touch with their religious institutions. But the movie doesn’t really gothere. When no one believes Mia’s haunting stories, “Annabelle” threatens tobecome a piece about how new mothers can be ignored, their concerns portrayed as the byproduct of hormones. But this notion isn't developed, either. Advertisement There are other problems. Wallis and Horton are remarkablyunengaging leads. She mumbles, he over-emotes, and the doll is allowed to stealscenes. And the film is visually flat. Pan reveals (panning across a door orroom to reveal something in the background) are over-used, and the sound ismixed to grating levels. It’s a movie that screams "Boo!" instead of trying to get under your skin. There is one great set piece involving a storage unit in thebasement and an elevator that just won’t leave it, but that’s something you canwatch on cable later, while ignoring the weak film that surrounds it.