Before the story has begun, she has bitten his lip anddrawn blood. When the story ends, someone has been convicted of murder. Inthe middle, everything is gray. Director/starMathieu Amalrichas confessed thatwhat drew him to Georges Simenon's novel "Le Chambre Bleu" was that it begins inthe middle of an affair, indeed the middle of a tryst. The impermanence of anystory or memory builds like bile in the guts of "The Blue Room." We think weknow, but can we dissect our remembrances, run over every glance and word witha magnifying glass, retroactively turn the scene of an affair into the scene ofa crime? Amalric's hero, so enfeebled by compromise he hardly merits the word,finds himself in a maze he has constructed out of his own half truths, deadenedemotions and simmering resentments and he can't remember the way out. The besthe can do is remember what it felt like to share the blue room of a hotel withthe woman who changed his life. Advertisement Amalric is Julien Gahyde, a man with debilitatingconfidence. He has a wife and child, a pristine modern home, a lucrative joband a beautiful mistress. Everything is perfect and he can't enjoy any of it.His time with Esther (played fittingly enough by Amalric's partner StéphanieCléau) is sweaty and desperate, and immediately dissolves into ritual. He must runacross town to get to his car, parked a discreet distance away. He must perfectthe lie he'll tell his wife about the bloody lip Esther gave him, and deliverit with the right degree of detached disinterest. He must pretend to behimself.Parsing out the real Julien from the one he pretends to be becomesmore difficult when we realize he's landed himself in jail. These events arenow being recalled before a judge because someone has been murdered. Amalricplays coy about the crime, hopping around the chronology of Julien's dalliancelooking for clues. We see evidence emerge every time we leap to a new sceneeven as we change our picture of Julien himself. The more he lies in memory,the more human and less obvious a suspect he seems. "The Blue Room"'s slipperyperspective fits a character who wonders if he ever understood a single secondof his meticulously drawn life. Amalric, cinematographerChristophe Beaucarneand editorFrançois Gédigiersand down and shellac the polycephalous narrativeinto fleeting, perfect surfaces. Julien looks through his past but he cannottouch any of it, the truth as volatile as the passions that drove him tomisfortune. Amalric's careful yet exuberant direction is nothingnew. His first five fiction features utilize depth more expertly than most 3Dfeatures, but here his images have been wrought with laser precision. Shot inAcademy Ratio, "The Blue Room" mimes Julien's predicament by imprisoning him insmall square frames long before the public trial has commenced. He stares offscreen at an answer that won't come, combing his myriad flashbacks for theanswer as if turning a glass Rubix cube. The subtle directionality of the compositionsand the constant shifts from the present to the past, "The Blue Room" often feelslike a work of cinematic futurism, not dissimilar to the films of StevenSoderbergh. It constructs ideal romantic and erotic zones, only to eye themfrom a clinical remove mere seconds later. The past must run to keep upwiththe progress of the trial. Thecrime at the heart of "The Blue Room" eventually becomes clear enough, but thepeople involved remain mysterious. Amalric puts the audience inside hisconvicted murderer's head to get them closer to the details but even that pointof view remains fatally limited. Julien cannot break out of the little box hehas constructed and make any sense of the timeline surrounding the murder. Hecan't even believe his own version of events or trust that he knows who Estherreally was. "The Blue Room" has many questions and very few answers. Even ifit did, who would trust them?Advertisement