“Automata”opens with onscreen text explaining the future30 years from now. Solar stormshave turned the Earth into a radioactive desert, killing 98% of the populationin the process. As a result, the ROC company created “primitive robots to helpbuild the walls and mechanical clouds that protect the humans.” There aremillions of robots, all of which are controlled by two protocols: they cannotharm any form of life and they can neither repair themselves nor alter anotherrobot in any fashion. “These rules are unalterable,” the screen says in boldface.Of course, this is not a true statement. Advertisement Sciencefiction is often used in allegorical fashion. It may not be fair to judge “Automata”by this gauge, but the film is so deathly somber and heavy-handed that I canonly assume directorGabe Ibáñezwanted to tell us Something Important. Your guess is as good as mine as to what that is. The score by ZacaríasM. de la Riva features choral voices singing melancholy notes while scenes one cannottake seriously flash before our eyes. The disconnect is akin to having theHarlem Boys Choir score from “Glory” paired with a Wayans Brothers movie. Nofilm featuring a sex robot should pretend it has the gravitas level of a MorganFreeman narration. It should at least be fun, which “Automata” is mostcertainly not. More on thesex robot later; she’s an integral part of what passes for the plot. “Automata”begins withDylan McDermottdiscovering a robot violating the second protocol—theone about self-repair. McDermott shoots it in the head, damaging the one partof the robot that might explain why it has suddenly violated an “unalterable”rule. A lot of robots get shot in this movie, and not one of them remotely attemptsto violate the first protocol—the one about harming people. Ibáñez takes greatpleasure in showing these low-budget, inanimate objects slowly dismembered bygunfire. Hitting their off switches would be just as effective, but “Automata”needs some kind of action to keep the audience involved. The screenplayis so adamant about shoving in as many sci-fi tropes as possible, it fails tocohere into anything that makes narrative sense. The visuals owe massive debtsto “Blade Runner” and the “Mad Max” movies. In addition to unwisely evokingmemories of both, “Automata” throws in a shadowy corporation, an apocalypticfuture, dangerous radioactivity, robots who become self-aware, scientificmumbo-jumbo and the end of civilization. Into it all, an insurance adjustershall lead us. Saidadjuster, Jacq Vauchan, is played by a bald, suitably apocalyptic lookingAntonio Banderas. Vauchan has grown weary of trudging through hazardous rainfallto deal with customers of ROC. We first meet him as he’s investigating a robotaccused of murdering the family dog by brushing its fur to death. The robot isinnocent. Vauchan decides he’s getting too old for this you-know-what. Advertisement Vauchan wantsto move his pregnant wife, Rachel (Birgitte Hjort Sørensen), from the brutalinner city to a beachside resort he keeps seeing in childhood flashbacks.Rachel thinks he’s crazy, and so do we once we realize the seaside is far more irradiated.Rachel exists solely to perform damsel-in-distress duty during the climax,where the villains drag her and her newborn baby into an extremely radioactive desertfor no logical reason whatsoever. Before thathappens, ROC sends Rachel’s hubby to an expert to determine what caused therobot Wallace shot in the opening scene to gain knowledge of itself. Theexpert, Dr. Dupre (Melanie Griffith), is skeptical about robots having protocolviolating capabilities, despite the fact that she also runs a brothel whoseS&M robots kinda violate their first protocol. “I specialize in pleasureand pain,” Cleo the sex robot tells Vauchan before she’s implanted with theother robot’s self-aware chip. She also specializes in driving getaway cars,which comes in handy when two little kids inexplicably shoot Dr. Dupre in the face. As they headdeeper into the desert to discover the “clocksmith” who’s retooling the robotsminus their second protocol, Cleo becomes Vauchon’s protector. Armed members ofROC, including McDermott and a gameRobert Forster, follow them with the intentto destroy both the robots and their colleague. More robots get shot, and inthe film’s one true moment of excitement, somebody gets blown away with a flaregun. Despite hernewfound intelligence, Cleo’s appearance (she’s practically naked and has two large roundcircles that pass for a booty) and her voice (provided by Griffith) never letus forget her original function. She may be able to repair herself and is smartenough to help build a highly intelligent giant robotic cockroach, but she’sstill reduced to moaning hilariously when sensing male arousal. You’ll besinking in your seat as a drunk Vauchan contemplates Cleo’s services. At leastthe sad choir is wise enough not to sing over this sequence. About thatgiant, super-evolved robotic cucaracha: I think it may hold the key to “Automata”’sallegory. If nothing else, it’s where all roads lead. Armed with that detail,you now know if you want to sit through this film. Personally, if I were you, I’dbypass it for a double feature of “Cherry 2000” and “Runaway.” You’ll get yourfill of sex robots and killer robot roaches, with none of the dreary seriousnessand overstuffed plot of “Automata”. The quality will be about the same.