There’s a place roughly 90 minutes intoJesse Moss’ “TheOvernighters” where, if the film had ended there, it would have been one of theyear’s great documentaries. But in its last 10 minutes, something verysurprising and unexpected happens, and what had been great becomes trulyextraordinary. This review will not describe that climactic episode, butonly note that it’s at once very different from, yet strangely in keeping with,what has come before. In one sense, “The Overnighters” offers afascinating and moving exploration of a perennial national theme, which hasbeen an even greater concern since the beginning of the Great Recession: work. Yet, because this is America, that subject has a strange way ofgetting intertwined with another characteristic obsession: sex. Advertisement The documentary’s setting, Williston, North Dakota, is atypical American small town that has become very atypical due to the oil boomthat brings hopeful would-be workers streaming in from all over the country.There is money to be made here, to be sure, but many of those arriving are onthe edge of desperation, can’t find work immediately (or at all) and havenowhere to sleep. That’s what prompts Pastor Jay Reinke to persuade thecongregation of the Concordia Lutheran Church to open their parking lot andparish house to many unfortunates who need shelter. These “overnighters” sleep in the hallways and their cars.The passionate, ever-buoyant Reinke rouses them in the morning with hymns andtries to tend to as many of their needs as he can, especially in steering themtoward work that will allow them to pay for lodging (the costs of housing havegone sky-high due to the oil boom). His work is a striking example of a mantrying to live by the ideals of Christian charity, and many in his congregationseem to appreciate that, but the Overnighters program also strains theirhospitality. While following Reinke’s work in the church, the film alsoprovides affecting, insightful portraits of some of the men who come toWilliston hoping to improve their lot. Their need and desire for work is almostpalpable. Some seem to have seen lots of tough times, yet there’s one fresh-faced18-year-old named Keegan who’s just starting out and is lucky enough to score agood job that allows him to bring his girlfriend and baby son out. But eventhat doesn’t solve everything. His girlfriend doesn’t like being cooped up in asmall apartment, so she goes back to Wisconsin, where Keegan’s father complainsthat their small town offers no opportunities to any young person. Advertisement That sense of an America where hard times have come to roostis ever-present in “The Overnighters,” and it reveals the dark flipside to thenews reports of boom times on the plains of North Dakota. And, of course, themigration this boom occasioned is nothing new: in a sense, the tale the filmtells is the same that brought generations of immigrants through Ellis Islandand across the continent during the Gold Rush and Great Depression. All of those earlier episodes upset established communitieswhile causing the creation of ad hoc new ones, and that’s what happens here.The people of Williston and the members of Reinke’s congregation generally seemto want to do the right thing, but the influx of strangers disrupts a oncecomfortable way of life, and soon there are efforts to roll back or reverse thekind of hospitality Reinke advocates. Likewise, there are tensions within the ad hoc community atthe church. Though Reinke seems to be the most sincere and dedicated ofpastors, his intensity–and perhaps something beneath it–rub some the wrongway. In particular, there are two men who become close to him–one serves as hisdeputy, the other lives briefly at his house–and end up seeing him as anenemy and denouncing him bitterly. One small flaw in the film is that not enough is shown ofthese men’s previous interactions with Reinke for us to understand the reasonsfor their antipathy. Yet the consequences are severe: One man tells the localpaper that some of the Overnighters are registered sex offenders, and Reinkeallowed one to stay at his house, even though he has three teenage daughtersand a son. (The offender in question, it should be noted, reportedly earned hisstatus by sleeping with his 16-year-old girlfriend when he was 18, and Reinkehad the support of his remarkable wife and kids in this decision as in his workwith the Overnighters generally.) In one striking scene, a newspaper reporter chases Reinkedown a street bombarding him with questions about the sex offenders, and therunning, upset pastor can’t bring himself to say anything. Later, though, hesays this could be the end of his ministry. It’s not, but the specter of sexualpredation is one factor that undermines the foundation of the Overnightersprogram. This scene also foreshadows the film’s amazing ending. While “The Overnighters” has the feel of an epic, given whatan expansive slice of America’s current economic experience it ponders, it’salso a very intimate one. Moss stayed with the Overnighters himself (partlybecause he couldn’t afford Williston’s inflated hotel prices) and was grantedan extraordinary degree of access to the Reinke family. This makes for a filmas rich emotionally as it is enlightening regarding the challenges facingpeople struggling to make a living. Advertisement