"Whiplash" is cinematic adrenalin. In an era whenso many films feel more refined by focus groups or marketing managers, it is a deeply personal and vibrantly alive drama.Damien Chazellehas taken a relatively staid subject like therelationship between a music student and his teacher and turned it into athriller built on a brilliant undercurrent of social commentary about what ittakes to make it in an increasingly competitive and cutthroat world. How farare you willing to push yourself to succeed? How far are you willing to pushsomeone else to force them on the path to success? Carried by two electricperformances, the tightest editing in a film this year and a daring screenplaythat writes itself into a corner and then somehow finds an unexpected way out, "Whiplash" is asbreathless as a drum solo, rising and falling just as thehopes and dreams of its protagonist climb and crash. Advertisement A young man named Andrew Neyman (Miles Teller) is practicinglate at night at his New York music school, one of the best in the country,when his drumming catches the ear of the infamous Mr. Fletcher (J.K. Simmons),the most important teacher at the school and the conductor for its mostimportant jazz band. Fletcher pauses, listens, barks a few orders at the youngman, and moves on, seemingly dissatisfied with what he heard. Andrew had hischance, that one brief moment many of us have to impress the people who canchange our lives, and he didn't cut it. He goes back to his routine class band,telling his dad (a wonderfully genuinePaul Reiser) that his opportunity tomove up probably passed him by. Of course, Fletcher's dismissal of Andrew in that first sceneis just the first of many examples of what could politely be called his"teaching style." Fletcher likes to tell the apocryphal story of howJo Jones threw a cymbal at Charlie Parker's head one night when he messed up,thereby pushing him to the breaking point at which he became Bird. Without thatcymbal, would music history be the same? Would Charlie Parker have gone home,refined, practiced and driven himself without the threat of not just failurebut physical violence? Fletcher uses that kind of barbarous techniqueon his students: throwing furniture, calling Andrew names, playing mind gamesand physically torturing him with repetitive drum solos until he bleeds on thekit. But that blood feeds his musical passion. And Andrew blossoms, asking outthe cute girl he's been afraid to talk to before, and taking first chair in themost important band at the most important music school in the country. Miles Teller, so great in breakthrough roles in “Rabbit Hole”and “The Spectacular Now,” does the best work of his young career here as Andrew, findingthe perfect blend of insecurity and confidence that comes entangled in the coreof a young talent. Andrew is naturally apprehensive, but he also knows he has adrive, a passion, a skill that is unique. Teller walks that line, neverfaltering by making Andrew too confident while also carefully letting viewerssee the spark within that Fletcher fuels. Advertisement As for Simmons, Fletcher could have been sucha caricature in the wrong actor’s hands. An over-the-top, abusive teacher is a part riddled with pitfalls. Simmons falls into none of them. He walkssuch a line that, even after the kind of inhumane mind games and physical abusethat should produce legal charges has unfolded on screen, we find ourselvesdrawn to Fletcher. He’s not 100% wrong when he says that the most dangerous twowords in the English language are “good job.” Whether you think it's the right approach or not, we’re in an era of praise,where encouragement is the teaching tool and every kid gets a medal for participation. Have true talents been left to wither because they were over-watered?Simmons perfectly captures the drive of a man who believes his abusive degreeof pressure is the only way to produce a diamond. While “Whiplash” would be a notable film purely for Tellerand Simmons’ performances, it reaches a different level when one considers theexecution of its tempo. EditorTom Crossand cinematographerSharone Meiroftenput us right on stage with Andrew and Fletcher, cutting and panning in rhythm withthe beat of the drum. It is captivating, to say the least, particularly in aclimax that produces more tension than any action film or thriller this year.The title refers to a song played multiple times throughout Chazelle’s film. Itcould also refer to that sense of wowed exhaustion you’ll feel when it’s over.