The story of a crusading reporter’s determined search fortruth, “Kill The Messenger” gains its not-inconsiderable power by not being thekind of movie that particular description might lead you to expect. Or, forthat matter, not being the movie of that description that you might want. Thegreat based-on-a-true-story journalism movie of the last 65 or so years was, ofcourse, “All The President’s Men,” chronicling the determined search for truthconducted by crusading reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein of TheWashington Post. One of the distinguishing features of “Kill The Messenger” isthat The Washington Post figures in the narrative as one of the bad guys. Advertisement Directed byMichael Cuesta(“L.I.E.,” “Rookie,” and, mostpertinently, episodes of  “Homeland”)from a script byPeter Landesman(the writer/director of “Parkland,” whohimself has a considerable background in investigative journalism), andstarringJeremy Renner, who is also an executive producer, “Messenger” is aboutGary Webb, a feisty reporter for the San Jose-Mercury News who seems to behaving a grand old time writing about drug dealers who are getting their housesillegally confiscated by the government. His wife (Rosemarie De Witt) toleratesthe haphazard lifestyle such an occupation brings, up to a point; when thehotsie-totsie girlfriend of an accused trafficker drops off a package of files atWebb’s home, the missus alludes to some past trouble in the marriage. Turns outthe hotsie-totsie (amusingly incarnated byPaz Vega) is kind of using Webb as acat’s paw, but in so doing, she throws either the story of a lifetime, or alive grenade, or both, into his lap: information pointing to a governmentinvolvement in the crack cocaine trade, a byzantine arrangement by which theC.I.A. was able to fund Ronald Reagan’s Contras by either looking the other wayat, or deliberately engineering, drug-money-for-arms transactions. Interviewinga big-shot dealer in a Central American jail (Andy Garcia), that dealer recallsa meeting with one “Ollie.” “Oliver North?” Webb asks, a little stunned. “No,Oliver Hardy, “ the prisoner says. “OF COURSE Oliver North.” Despite the warnings of a D.C. bureaucrat (Michael Sheen)who suggests that characterizing the realm Webb is exploring as a “rabbit hole”would perhaps be an extremely dire understatement, Webb convinces his editorsto run his story. Initially hailed as a hero, Webb is soon met withoverwhelming skepticism. Papers such as The New York Times and The WashingtonPost, with “who is this upstart?” indignation, start picking at aspects of thestory, and then at Webb himself. The trouble to which Webb’s wife had alludedto returns to bite him and his family in the ass, hard. “They’re going to makeit about you,” Sheen’s character predicted. Boy, do they ever. The movie is, inits details, relatively discreet about laying blame but fairly definite indepicting a media culture now so entrenched in the establishment that itdoesn’t even have to be coerced into serving the interests of the powerful.That the filmmakers are able to pursue their theme to the extent that the truestory on which the film is based obliges them to somehow has to be credited toRenner. His performance is very good, despite the somewhat stereotypical brocharacteristics with which the Webb character is here endowed. Around themid-point of the movie, I noted that the material was sufficiently compellingthat, say, the montage of Renner tooling around on a motorcycle being allstressed out was kind of beside the point. In light of the picture’s finale,that sort of thing made slightly more sense, but still carried an aura ofspecial pleading. That said, it’s a minor quibble relative to the prettysubstantial points the movie’s making. The death of print and the death ofjournalism are two different phenomena, but they’re not unrelated; if you’reof the opinion that it’s all because of the Internet, well, “Kill TheMessenger” has some perhaps disturbing news for you—about the news you are nowgetting, and the news you are now not getting.