Theodore Melfi’s “St. Vincent” is defiantly crowd-pleasing,complete with the relatively shallow characters and simple resolutions thatsuch an often-derogatory phrase encompasses. Critics often find a way to cutthe legs out of a film just by virtue of how neatly it dots its i's andcrosses its t's, as if making a movie that appeals to a wide demographic isinherently too easy to merit praise. Of course, this is nonsense, and there issuch a thing as well-made cheese. “St. Vincent” is a piece of very well-madecheese, a movie in which one can feel its manipulations and heart-string pulling,but the talented ensemble makes those critical talking points easy to dismiss. One could sit and pick it apart, noting that the script probablydoesn’t work without such A-list talent to imbue it with something that oftenenough feels real. But one could also just enjoy the cheese. Advertisement Vincent (Bill Murray) is a hard-drinking, hard-living,hard-luck New Yorker. He lives alone, sleeps with a pregnant hooker (NaomiWatts), gambles away anything he earns that he doesn’t leave at the bottom of aglass. His bank account is overdrawn, his health is failing and he has no realfriends that he doesn’t pay. He’s the joke-telling old guy at the end of thebar—entertaining for a bit, but no one you want in your life long-term. Enter Oliver (Jaeden Lieberher), Vincent’s new neighbor, thequiet, sweet child of soon-to-be-divorced Maggie (Melissa McCarthy). Oliver’smom has to work long hours, while also dealing with the pending custodyarrangement for her son. So, Oliver has nowhere to go after school. Maggieenters an agreement with Vincent, in which she’ll pay him to babysit the youngman. Of course, this leads to trips to bet on the horses, late afternoons atthe bar, and encounters with the aforementioned lady of the night. And, ofcourse, Vincent helps Oliver grow up a bit while Oliver helps Vincent find somejoy in life. It’s undeniably simple. I haven’t even mentioned thecaricatures of the Catholic teacher (Chris O’Dowd) or bookie (Terrence Howard).And yet I couldn’t help but fall for some of the film’s simpler charms. Murrayand Lieberher have a natural, unforced rapport that’s harder to pull off andrarer in films like this than people think. The “Dennis the Menace” aspect oftheir dynamic could have been far more cartoonish and overplayed. On paper, itprobably sounds like it is, but the individual beats between this veterancomedian and this talented newcomer connect. Oliver is a uniquely generouschild, the kind of kid who sees the good in people, even grumps like Vincent.And that balance of youthful optimism and old pessimism has an infectiouscharm. The realization that life has a new chapter, a new outlook and a newfriend in store for us long after we’ve thought the book was closed is a theme asold as cinema, but sometimes it’s more about the execution than the freshnessof the theme. It helps to have a cast this committed to the concept.Murray in a starring role is rare enough nowadays that all opportunities to seethis great actor work should be savored. And it’s remarkably refreshing to seeMcCarthy break free from the larger-than-life schtick of her recent comedymisfires and remind us she has more range than she’s been allowed to show. Even Watts finds beats in her admittedly ridiculous character thatconnect. Finally, Lieberher has the kind of easygoing, unforced charm thatcasting agents kill for on a project like this one. He’s as likable as themovie that surrounds him. And, sometimes, being likable is enough to make a difference. Advertisement