A tense battle of wills between a Nazi general and a Swedishdiplomat over the fate of Paris in the waning days of World War II givesdirectorVolker Schlondorffthe premise for a compelling historical drama in“Diplomacy,” which benefits greatly from the razor-sharp, theater-honed skillsof two formidable French actors,Niels ArestrupandAndré Dussollier, whocreated the roles on stage. The characters they play, General Dietrich von Choltitz(Arestrup) and Consul Raoul Nordling (Dussollier), are real figures. Itdeserves noting, though, that the long overnight encounter between the two menwe see in the film never happened. A somewhat more accurate account of theirinteraction can be found in the 1966 movie “Is Paris Burning?”, directed byRené Clément and scripted byGore VidalandFrancis Ford Coppolafrom thebestseller by Larry Collins and Dominque Lapierre. There, Nordling (played byOrson Welles) negotiates with von Choltitz (Gert Frobe) regarding the FrenchResistance, not the destruction of Paris, days before the climactic night ofAugust 24-25, 1944. Advertisement The conceit ofCyril Gely’s play (adapted by him andSchlondorff), which brings the men together on that night, is certainlydefensible in that it gives a tight human focus to a decision that could haveresulted in an unimaginable mass horror. Indeed, the prospect of that event looms over the film’sdrama, giving it great emotional punch even though we know the story’s outcome.Unlike most movies, where the horror arrives climactically, here it comes inthe opening minutes, when von Choltitz and his staff coldly go over their planfor the imminent destruction of the French capital. Hearing this can still give a viewer chills. Every bridge inParis (except the Pont Neuf) has been loaded with explosives. When these gooff, the Seine will burst its banks and the whole southeastern quadrant of thecity will be flooded. Then other detonations will destroy most of Paris’ greatmonuments: Notre Dame, the Louvre, the Opera, the Arc de Triomphe, the EiffelTower. Fire and floods will kill countless people, and the approaching Allieswill find smoldering ruins where Paris once stood. Von Choltitz has been personally assigned this action byHitler, who is enraged that Berlin is in flames while earth’s most beautifulcity survives unscathed. As “Diplomacy” opens, the General is in his quartersin the Hotel Meurice, on the Rue de Rivoli, when Nordling suddenly appears. TheSwede explains that the room has a secret entrance that Napoleon III once usedto visit a favorite mistress. This odd proof of his own personal vulnerabilityonly slightly unnerves von Choltitz, who orders the entrance investigated whilehe deals with the diplomat. Advertisement Nordling has a letter from a French general about arrangingfor the Germans’ peaceable surrender of the city. Von Choltitz tears it upwithout opening it. His father and grandfather were soldiers, he has destroyedseveral other cities and liquidated the Jewish populations of some, and he’sfiercely loyal to the Nazi cause. There’s nothing that will keep him fromfollowing Hitler’s barbaric orders. The elaborate colloquy that follows hinges more onpersonalities and occupations than ideologies. Von Choltitz is the consummatemilitary man, erect, disciplined and obedient to the hierarchy that containshim. Yet he also seems an intelligent and somewhat cultured man, not immune toarguments about the beauty and importance of Paris. For his part, Nordling is tactfuland discerning, firm when it will benefit him yet also yielding when it’sstrategically advantageous. He appeals first to the General’s pity and sense ofwrong. When this doesn’t get him far, he says then don’t spare thecity for the French, do it for your own grandchildren, so that their relationswith the world aren’t poisoned for generations to come. Both men know the warwill be over soon and nothing of its outcome would be changed by Paris’destruction, so both see reasons to look to the future and try to lessen thecalamities that lie between now and an armistice. It’s a good argument, but von Choltitz has a devastatingcomeback. Just recently, he says, Hitler has issued a decree that he thinks maybe primarily aimed at him. It orders that the families of any soldier whodisobeys orders can be punished for their crimes. Thus he fears that if hedoesn’t proceed with the city’s destruction, his wife and three children willbe arrested and executed. “What would you do if you were in my place?” he asks.Nordling is stunned into silence. Essentially a two-hander even though it contains a number ofminor characters, the film proves consistently absorbing thanks in large partto the adept, expertly calibrated work of its leads. As von Choltitz, Arestrupexhibits a powerful physical presence while also showing himself vulnerable inways both physical (his asthma is an important plot point) and emotional. AndDussollier’s Nordling suggests the mercurial mental agility of a man who, likea chess master, is obliged to make quick, complex calculations. Advertisement