“Camp X-Ray” has cinematic and moral intelligence. Thisdebut feature by writer-directorPeter Sattlerabout a female soldier stationedat Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, is a quiet, patient drama that focuses on a handful ofcharacters and plays out in a few key locations: a cell, a hallway, aprison yard, some offices. It articulates its observations and emotions throughshots and cuts, and actors’ reactions. It’s also about culture clashes,patriotism, idealism, duty, and what it means to be a woman in a job defined byprimordial ideas of manhood. It is not a perfect movie—a couple of developmentsfeel shoehorned in, and the final leg squanders the goodwill built up in thepreceding 90 minutes—but it’s ambitious, and it has soul. It’s one of the bettermainstream American film portraits of what happened to America's psycheafter 9/11: the moral numbness that set in right away, and never entirelylifted. Advertisement “Twilight” starKristen Stewartcarries the film on herslender shoulders. She plays the heroine, PFC Amy Cole, a young woman from a Floridatown who enlisted in the Army to learn and grow, but now finds herself atGuantanamo—also as Gitmo, or Camp X-Ray—watching over prisoners. Sorry:detainees. It’s important to use thatword instead of “prisoners” because, as Amy explains to a fellow soldier,“Prisoners are subject to the Geneva Conventions. Detainees are not.” Amy’s trainer, CPL Randy Randsell (Lane Garrison), tells herright off the bat that it’s not a good idea to see the detainees as autonomoushuman beings, because that will get in the way of the job. He discourages her partlyby playing on her insecurity as one of a handful of women at Camp X-Ray, a campstaffed mostly by burly male soldiers guarding cell blocks full of fundamentalistMuslims who don’t like being overseen by Americans generally, American women inparticular. Amy disregards Randy’s instructions and lets a stridentlyeloquent, English-speaking inmate named Amir Ali (Peyman Moaadiof “ASeparation”) engage her in conversation as she rolls a book cart up and downthe cell block hallway. The relationship between Amy, a strong-silent type, andAli, a chatterbox provocateur, has a ‘70s-movie feel. The filmmaker letsStewart act Steve McQueen-style, mostly with her eyes, body and hands. Moaadijabbers and squirms and wheedles like a Middle Eastern cousin of DustinHoffman. Their first talk is faintly Kafka-esque: he’s read the first sixHarry Potter books and has been begging for the seventh volume for two years.Amy can’t and won’t help him, offering him a two-week-old newspaper pluswhatever else is on the cart. Their conversations about reading material dosuch a subtle job of exploring the film’s themes (they talk about WillaCather’s “My Antonia,” a book built around a female pioneer, as well as Harry Potter) that it’s a huge letdown when the filmspays these conversations off in a boringly conventional way.Far better are the journalistic details: the magazines andnewspapers on Amy’s book cart, with women’s faces blacked out; the way inmateswrap their Korans in small white blankets, and pass the time by drawing, doingpuzzles, yelling at the guards and each other, and occasionally hurling fecesin protest; the way that procedure, protocol and tradition rule everything, onboth sides of the cell doors. The first half of “Camp X-Ray” concentrates on showing us whatit’s like to be Amy and do Amy’s job. Sattler often photographs her in waysthat either disguise her femininity or complicate our reactions to it. The firsttime we see her, she’s silhouetted against the sun, backlit like aClint Eastwoodgunfighter. As the story unfolds, thereare many close-ups taken from behind Stewart’s shoulders as Amy walks through thecamp or down a cell block corridor, or sits in a chair in the mess hall or inher apartment, thinking. Our eye naturally gravitates toward her hair, which ispulled into a tight bun. The bun is at the center of the frame during so manyimportant scenes that it eventually seems to stand for both Amy’s tightly woundpersonality and her workplace predicament. She gets flack for being sexuallyunavailable to men, but at the same time, she’s under pressure to “man up” andnot show her feelings, because that’s what girls do. (Amy only lets her hair down once in the film, before Skypingwith her mom.) “Are you a soldier, or are you a female soldier?” Randy asksAmy, when she recoils from an inmate’s humiliation-as-punishment. “’Cuz I don’thave these kind of problems with soldiers.” Advertisement Stewart is great in “Camp X-Ray.” Freed of her “Twilight”obligation to enact a horror movie version of fairytale-femme situations, sheseems at ease (so to speak) as a tomboy. She mines a narrow emotional range withprecision. Her performance is fat-free. There are silent film-quality close-upswhere you can read every fluctuation in her mood even though she’sbarely moving a muscle. This is a true movie star performance. When it fails to convince, it’s only because Stewart’s actingmakes the heroine seem like such a distinct, real person that when Amy talks or acts like a standardconscience-stricken movie character, we can’t accept it. “Camp X-Ray” spiralsinto conventional dramatics near the end, rushing through Amy’sepiphany and Ali’s despair, and turning into the hard-edged yet sentimental buddyfilm you hoped it was too proud to let itself be. But it’s still worthseeing for the caliber of its acting and filmmaking. Sattler and hiscinematographer,James Laxton, compose striking shots that advance the storyand comment on the script’s themes without becoming ostentatiously pretty. Themovie makes great use of the camp’s coldly anonymous architecture, framingguards and prisoners within rectangles and squares and converging diagonallines, and sometimes dwarfing them in long shots that have the geometricsolidity of a Piet Mondrian painting. The editing, byGeraud Brisson, juxtaposesshots in cheeky ways, as when the movie crosscuts between a Muslim call toprayer and soldiers lining up for morning inspection: the sequence is capped bya shot of the the US flag flapping in the breeze, as if to suggest that blindfaith in a nation's goodness is its own kind of state religion.