In August of 1941, Winston Churchill made a speech, broadcast on the  BBC, where he said, "The whole of Europe has been wrecked and trampled  down by the mechanical weapons and barbaric fury of the Nazis…As his  armies advance, whole districts are exterminated…We are in the  presence of a crime without a name." The Nazis did not invent the  concept of the calculated extermination of an entire people, although  modern technology helped them be more efficient in their methods. It was  Raphael Lemkin, a Polish Jew obsessed since childhood with man's  inhumanity to man, who gave that crime a very specific name, "genocide".  "Watchers of the Sky," an intricate and immensely powerful documentary,  directed byEdet Belzberg, is both the story of Raphael Lemkin as well  as a harrowing examination of genocide, past, recent, and ongoing. Advertisement Partially inspired by Samantha Power's extraordinary Pulitzer-Prize  winning book about genocide, "A Problem From Hell" (the title coming  from then Secretary of State Warren Christopher's comment that the  Balkans, following the breakup of the Soviet Union, was "a problem from  hell"), "Watchers of the Sky" covers so much ground and weaves together  so many stories that it is not a surprise that it won the best editing  award at Sundance. The past bleeds into the present, and the present  then dissolves into the past, accurately reflecting the subject matter.  Lines of refugees in 1939 Poland dissolve into lines of refugees from  current-day Syria or the Sudan, going from black-and-white footage to  color and back. The device tells the story better than any language ever  could. Much of the film is about policy-making, and tireless lobbying,  the wrangling of legalese and courtroom struggles, potentially dry  stuff, but turned urgent and humane in Belzberg's hands. As with Power's book, the story of Raphael Lemkin's single-minded quest  to make genocide an international crime is the thematic thru-line, the  thread holding it all together. As current counterpoints to Lemkin,  continuing his thwarted legacy, "Watchers of the Sky" introduces us to  four other people who have devoted their lives to combating genocide  (one of them being Samantha Power, currently the United States  ambassador to the United Nations, with decades of experience as a war  journalist; she is our guide through the biography of Lemkin). First,  there is Emmanuel Uwurukundo, who survived the genocide in Rwanda,  losing the majority of his family. Now he works for the UN Refugee  Agency, overseeing three refugee camps in Chad filled with people  fleeing the conflict in Darfur. Ben Ferencz, a Hungarian-born Jew now in  his 90s, was a prosecutor in the Nuremberg trials (and knew Lemkin  personally). Still active as a lobbyist, he is shown circling the seats  at the U.N. before a session, handing out pamphlets, bantering, joking,  gossiping. Finally, we also meet Luis Moreno Ocampo, currently the chief  prosecutor at the International Criminal Court, who cut his teeth in  the 1985 Trial of the Juntas in his homeland, Argentina. Working with a  team of investigators, Moreno Ocampo is seen building a case against  Sudanese president Omar al Bashir. He wants to issue an arrest warrant  on behalf of the ICC, saying chillingly in a press conference, "We  cannot wait for him to finish his work." Lemkin was born in 1900 in Bezwodne, Poland, territory that had been  passed back and forth between empires for generations. As a child,  Lemkin read "Quo Vadis," by Henryk Sienkiewicz, which told the story of  the Roman Empire's persecution of early Christians. It got him to  thinking. Why did man do this? Why was it not a crime? Why was the  murder of an individual punishable by law but not the murder of  millions? Could anything be done to stop it? These would be the  questions that would obsess him for his entire life. The 1921 killing of  the former Turkish prime minister by an Armenian who screamed as he  pulled the trigger, "This is to avenge the death of my family!" made an  impression on Lemkin, and he began to see such events as occurring in a  long bloody continuum, back to the days described in "Quo Vadis." When  Germany invaded Poland, Lemkin was unable to convince his parents to  come with him to America. He came alone, becoming that natural byproduct  of genocide, that entity he had read about and dreaded since he was a  child, a refugee. Advertisement Once in the United States, Lemkin talked to anyone who would listen (and  many would run the other way when they saw him coming) about the fact  that what was happening to the Jews in Germany and Poland and elsewhere  was not an aberration, but an ongoing eternal problem that needed to be  addressed. As a studier of languages, Lemkin grappled with what to  actually call this "crime without a name". He filled notebooks with  rough drafts. What he needed was a word that that the civilized world  would recoil from, as one. In her book, Power writes, "The word that  Lemkin settled upon was a hybrid that combined the Greek derivativegeno, meaning 'race' or 'tribe,' together with the  Latin derivativecide, fromcaedere, meaning "killing.' 'Genocide' was short, it  was novel, and it was not likely to be mispronounced. Because of the  word's lasting association with Hitler's horrors, it would also send  shudders down the spines of those who heard it." Lemkin's faith in language may seem naive, and many thought so at the  time. He was a curious figure, rumpled and fanatical, traveling to the  Nuremberg Trials, haunting the halls of the brand new U.N., firing off  thousands of letters to people all over the world, diplomats and human  rights groups and politicians, looking for support for his idea that  genocide prevention was in everybody's best interest. "Watchers of the Sky" breaks up all of this material with haunting and  eerie watercolor-looking animation, of dark forests or rolling fields  filled with ghostly silhouettes of people, the figures slowly  dissolving, one by one, leaving an empty landscape. Lemkin's handwriting  from his notebooks unfurls across the screen, slowly, beautifully,  making him into a living witness to the horrors we see today. The  questions he asked, the solutions he proposed (many of which have come  into fruition, flawed though they may be), all hover over the landscape  in Chad, the lines of refugees waiting to be processed, some of whom  have lived in the camp for three or four years now. The sheer amount of  information that Belzberg had to organize, and fit into a seamless  whole, is awe-inspiring. The pace feels like an unstoppable river, the  current of history, the continuum of atrocity that Lemkin and others  sensed.There are those who see genocide (and its regular dance-partner,  millions of refugees) as an intractable issue, in Warren Christopher's  hopeless phrase, a "problem from hell." Lemkin saw the problem,  witnessed it and experienced it, but turned his energy into asking,  obsessively, the eternal question, "What is to be done about it?"  "Watchers of the Sky" warns against apathy and hopelessness. It believes  in the importance of language, of calling things by their proper names,  and of being strong enough to be able to recognize real evil. In 1941,  Adolf Hitler famously said to his military brass, "The aim of war is not  to reach definite lines but to annihilate the enemy physically. It is  by this means that we shall obtain the vital living space that we need.  Who today still speaks of the massacre of the Armenians?"The slogan "Never again" is meaningless without some sort of law to back  it up. What that might actually look like is still a work in progress;  work that "Watchers in the Sky" highlights. Lemkin's work, continued.  While the film is not optimistic, and it does not provide "hope for the  future" or anything equally as facile, it is a powerful reminder of the  importance of the struggle itself.Advertisement