I don’t want to come off like some kind of inverse snob, butI’ve got to say, given the circumstances of his birth and upbringing,writer-directorJake Paltrowstrikes me as the Least Qualified Person ToEnvision A Dystopian Sci-Fi Future Ever. You may infer the circumstances ofPaltrow’s birth and upbringing by his name, I reckon. In any event,qualifications notwithstanding, he has nevertheless opted to imagine and filmsuch a story, one that bears out my hunch. “Young Ones” (there really isn’t anything in the movie thatmakes this bland title pop) takes place in an unnamed portion of the WesternUnited States at a time when water is very scarce, and chronicles a sort ofland-war-by-subterfuge in which the main players areMichael Shannon’s hauntedpatriarch,Nicholas Hoult’s ambitious young-man-on-the-make (for several items,includingElle Fanning’s character, Shannon’s daughter) andKodi Smit-McPhee’sobservant, sensitive son-of-Shannon. In Paltrow’s future, water is a commoditynot unlike oil. But the former farmers of the now-desert in which Shannonroams, first with a live donkey, then with a robot replacement, are not nearlyas stressed as ordinary mortals in danger of imminent dehydration might be inthe real world. Indeed, Paltrow’s near-dystopia (there is still a centralgovernment and a semblance of civilization, including used-car dealerships, in thisworld) is one of the most decorous you’ll ever see. Even the most thirsty anddesperate look pretty good most of the time. And the color coordination! At onepoint,Aimee Mullins, playing a mom with a new robotic spinal cord, tunes into avideo-streaming funeral, at which the attendees are all dressed in blue-greyclothes, the better to blend in with the blue-grey rock formation behind them.Seriously, this movie makes “The Road Warrior” look like “The Road Warrior.” Advertisement Paltrow, whose previous directorial feature was the somewhatmore apt 2007 showbiz romcom “The Good Night,” is an attentive student ofcinema, as his mini-homages to the likes of Antonioni and Lucas in this storytestify. But his story is a veritable nothingburger, here and there recalling notesfrom the likes of “Giant” and “There Will Be Blood,” but never reallyconnecting on levels emotional or intellectual. One would like to say the castdoes its level best, but, to be brutally honest, the footage assembled doesn’tdepict them doing a whole lot more than squinting, and looking lanky in clothesthat, again, aren’t inordinately suitable for desert living, unless it’s GQ’sidea of desert living. Viewers who make it to the end will be confused orinfuriated but likely not delighted by the faux-Wes-Anderson curtain-call endcredits. Too bland to qualify as a really notable disaster, “Young Ones” findsyoung Paltrow still trying to find his voice. If he intends to continue on thiscareer path, he’d best accelerate a bit, as he’s almost 40.