Althoughmany commentators will no doubt immediately compare the new WW II epic"Fury" to Quentin Tarantino's brilliant "InglouriousBasterds," largely because both films starBrad Pittas a heavily-scarred,drawling Army man leading his men in a quest to kill as many Nazis as possible,it is actually closer in tone to a straightforward and un-ironic guys-on-a-mission tale along the lines of "The Dirty Dozen" or "WhereEagles Dare," with a heavy dollop of gruesome bloodletting depicting thetrue horrors of armed conflict that have been de rigueur for the war moviegenre in the wake of "Saving Private Ryan." It may sound like an interesting approach for a modern war film, but it doesn't take long to realize thatwriter-directorDavid Ayerhas spent more time adding flesh to his battlefieldsequence than he has in fleshing out the screenplay. The end result, whiletechnically impressive, is a dramatically bloodless affair, despite the gallonsof gore on display. Advertisement Setduring the waning days of the war, with Allied forces marching through Germanyon the way to Berlin and the Nazis pulling out all the stops—including puttingkids into battle and hanging those who refuse to fight—to stop them. Pittplays Sgt. Don "Wardaddy" Collier, the commander of a five-manSherman tank crew that has been together since North Africa, and who he isdetermined to see survive to the end of the war. His men include thereligious-minded gunner Bible (Shia LaBeouf), the Hispanic lead driver Gordo(MIchael Peña) and the borderline scumbag mechanic Coon-Ass (Jon Berenthal). Asthe story opens, they have just lost their second driver in battle, and at theirnext stop, they take on a new man in Norman Ellison (Logan Lerman), awet-behind-the-ears type who has only been in the war for a few weeks as atypist and who has never fired a gun before, let alone served in combat. Needless to say, the other members of the Furycrew are not impressed with the new guy and are even less so when he winds upbarfing all over the place while cleaning up the blood in the cab left by hispredecessor. Things get worse when Norman chokes during his first confrontationin a move that leads to the grisly death of another tank commander in theircolumn. Eventually, he proves his mettle and begins to mesh with the team atlast and Wardaddy even takes him out during a brief stopover to an imprompturendezvous with a couple of German women (Anamaria Marincaand Alicia vonRittberg) to relieve him of his virginity. After an ambush that wipes out theother tanks that they are traveling with, Fury finally breaks down, but beforeit can be repaired and the five men are placed in the seemingly impossibleposition of trying to single-handedly stave off the arrival of 300 SS troops. Ayer isbest known for writing and/or directing such gritty cop dramas as"Training Day," "End of Watch" and this year's brutallyidioticArnold Schwarzeneggervehicle "Sabotage," and, with this film,he takes a giant leap forward in terms of scope and ambition, but only generatesmiddling results. When it comes to the details, Ayer excels—he convincinglyevokes the look and feel of this period in history and also does a decent jobof suggesting how a quintet of people who would likely never even acknowledgeeach other in other circumstances can forge together into a single working unitin times of duress. The action sequences are also nicely staged, with one battlein which the smaller but faster Sherman races around to fight off a larger butslower German Tiger tank offering some genuine thrills. Advertisement Thetrouble with "Fury" is that while stocking up on all the littledetails, Ayer has failed to provide much of a narrative for them to hang upon.The film may remind some viewers of the kind of thing that one might have seenon the bottom half of a double-bill in 1943—the storyline is trite andunsurprising, the dialogue is almost always just a little too on-the-nose, and the climactic standoff against the approaching Nazi forcesfeels too contrived for its own good. In those aforementioned B movies, thatwasn't such a problem because they usually clocked out at 80 minutes or so andmoved quickly enough so that viewers usually didn't notice such flaws."Fury," on the other hand, clocks in at 134 minutes and it makes youfeel every one of them in ponderous detail. (The sequence with the German womenstarts off nicely enough but goes on forever before finally arriving at itsinevitable payoff.) Speaking of ponderous, the film is, between Steven Price'soppressive score and the cacophony of combat, so noisy that if there was anOscar given for Most Sound, it would be the clear front-runner.On theacting front, Brad Pitt is good—of course, he is almost always good—but neverquite finds a way of approaching his character that doesn't call to mind hisindelible performance as Aldo Raine in "Inglourious Basterds."Likewise, his co-stars turn in decent-enough performances (though LaBeouf'sattempts to grizzle himself up via darkened teeth and an especially unfortunatemustache may inspire a few bad laughs early on), but the characters are sopaper-thin and devoid of any shading beyond their one approved character traitthat they aren't able to do much of anything with them to make them live orbreathe. Since we have not been given any particular reason to care about theseparticular characters, other than the fact that they are not Nazis, the finalconflict and the personal sacrifices they make wind up having precious littledramatic impact. "Fury"isn't so much a bad movie as it is a fairly unnecessary one. From a technicalstandpoint, it is occasionally quite impressive and fans of the WWII genre asa whole might find it to be of some interest, though those with weakerconstitutions may want to give it a second thought considering all the bloodand guts on display. From a dramatic and emotional perspective, however, itjust sort of lumbers along without ever generating a real sense of interest inwhat is happening on the scene. If only Ayer had spent a little less time onthe physical aspects of this project and given a little more thought to thestory, characters and dialogue, he might have been able to truly do"Fury" honor instead of giving viewers just another warpotboiler.Advertisement