Now nearly 80 years old, the Japanese animation directorIsao Takahatahas ever forged his own path over the course a half-century ofwork. A legendary perfectionist, the co-founder of Studio Ghibli (also the homeof the greatHayao Miyazaki) has broken molds by, for example, creating ananimated feature completely lacking in any “fantastic” element, the tender 1991“Only Yesterday.” His new film, his first in 14 years, is a staggeringmasterpiece of animation based on a very old Japanese folk tale. “The Tale of The Princess Kaguya” is both very simple and head-spinningly confounding, a thingof endless visual beauty that seems to partake in a kind of pictorialminimalism but finds staggering possibilities for beautiful variation withinits ineluctable modality. It’s a true work of art. Advertisement The movie begins with a gruff bamboo cutter in a forest. Thecolors are pastel and watercolor; the drawing resembles charcoal sketches.Cutting away at bamboo, the farmer sees a shaft of light; then a plant yields adoll-like creature that, once he spirits it off to his cabin to show his wife,transforms into a human baby. Despite being in middle age, the wife discoversshe can feed the baby (the breastfeeding depictions are very matter-of-fact);the little girl is growing at an accelerated rate. She soon starts playing withsome of the males who live in the neighboring area; they nickname her “L’ilBamboo.” The leader of the boys is the slightly older Sutemaru, and all seemsright for L’il Bamboo in the pastoral paradise where she runs and plays andlaughs and sings a song about the nature of all living beings, a song she can’tremember having learned but which she’s always known. Her adoptive pop has other ideas, especially after “thegods,” as he believes, bestow a lot of gold upon him; he goes and buys a castlein the capital, and venture to make the little girl into a genuine princess.L’il Bamboo’s heart breaks, but she wants to honor her father’s wishes. Here’swhere the movie’s story takes a rather infuriating turn. As the girl, soongiven the name “Kaguya,” is trained and then visited by a quintet of ostensiblynoble suitors, the story turns into a kind of nightmare of patriarchy. Kaguya,bright and talented and beautiful, suffers through multiple squelchings of herown desire, and then acquiesces to the venal wishes of the authority figuresshe loves. The movie is so emotionally roiling because it, too, is of twominds. It wants Kaguya’s unfettered spirit to have its way, but it alsorecognizes the almost primordial obligation that binds us to family andconvention. Kaguya’s got her oafish father’s number, and when she stands up tohim it’s thrilling: “If I see you in a courtier’s cap I’ll kill myself,” shetells him calmly at one point. And the father’s ignorance is startling: hetruly believes that what he’s putting Kaguya through is for her own happiness,that this status is something she covets as much as he. Things take an evenmore jarring turn once Kaguya finds out just where she’s from. Even if you have trouble hooking into the scenario’scultural idiosyncrasies—the concerns of this movie, while not “Japanese” in andof themselves, are addressed in a very specifically Japanese way—every frame of“Princess Kaguya” is astonishingly beautiful. What looks rather rudimentary atthe film’s opening is revealed to have a depth that never stops yieldingbeauty; check out the shadows that fall over the bamboo cutter as he runs fromthe forest with his discovery cradled in his arms. The movement animation ofthe baby “L’il Bamboo” is some of the best depiction of infant development everin any medium: so much study, care, and artistry. Creatures both found innature (insects, birds) and not (storm clouds that become dragons) are drawnwith remarkable sensitivity. I believe the movie is best experienced with its originalJapanese-language soundtrack; its widest release, however, will be in anEnglish-language dub featuringJames Caanvoicing the bamboo-cutter, MarySteenburgen as the wife, andChloe Grace Moretzas Kaguya. Due to a screeningsnafu I was able to experience about fifteen minutes of this version and canreport that it sounds as if these performers honor the material well, so eitherway, don’t miss this if you are an animation fan. Advertisement