In the interest of full disclosure, I ought to admit thatI’ve been acquainted with this film’s writer/director,Alex Ross Perry, forlonger than I can actually remember. That is to say, I met Mr. Perry when heworked as a clerk at the venerable, not to say legendary, multimedia emporiumMondo Kim’s on St. Mark’s Place, in the video section, and I visited said emporiumquite frequently back in the day, and almost always after I’d gotten hammeredat the nearby Grassroots Tavern. You get the idea. I’ve continued myacquaintance with the filmmaker in a non-hammered state of being, but we’re notsuper tight or anything. Cordially-friendly I think is the right term. I bringall this up not just in the interest of journalistic integrity but because itis rather likely that if “Listen Up Philip,” the distinctively funny anddisconcerting new film by Alex, is your first exposure to his work, onequestion you might have on exiting is “What kind of person makes a movie likethis?” Advertisement For one of the things that make “Listen Up Philip” sodistinctive is the relentless unpleasantness of its lead character, youngnovelist PhilipLewis Friedman, played here with knuckle-bitten commitment byJason Schwartzman. In the movie’s opening scene, Philip meets with anex-girlfriend for lunch; he intends to give her the galleys of his latestnovel, but when she shows up late, he browbeats her within an inch of her life.Having decided that abusiveness is personally liberating, he arranges a meetwith an old college chum, who he abrasively condemns as a sellout. “What aboutour declaration of principles,” he whines, waving some paper in the guy’s face.“Remember this?” The punchline to the scene is that Philip’s erstwhile friendis in a wheelchair. Put another human being in front of Philip, and he’ll figureout a way to irritate him or her. Is he horrible, or just befuddled? “ThingsI’ve coveted for years are mine now and I feel miserable,” he says, sincerely;then he shoots the sentiments down: “That’s so cliché.” He purposefullyalienates his long-time girlfriend (Elizabeth Moss) but comes on all attentiveand furrow-browed to older novelist Ike Zimmerman (Jonathan Pryce), who’s cutfrom the same misanthropist cloth as his possible acolyte. (And whose bookjackets have the same typeface as that ofPhilip Roth’s classic “Portnoy’sComplaint;” Roth is an acknowledged influence on Perry, although Roth’sconception of humanity looks as cuddly as William Saroyan’s when put up againstPerry’s perspective.) But Philip has a few things to teach Ike about forciblykeeping the world at bay, despite the best efforts of Ike’s daughter Melanie(Kristen Ritter) to put both men in their place. “Listen Up Philip” is not quite so plot-oriented as I’mmaking it sound. The movie has a peculiar structure, in that it follows thenarratives of individual characters almost willy-nilly, delivering wry,upsetting mini-narratives of the futility of all human endeavor. These are allpeppered with discomfiting insights and dialogue zingers, and Perry’s eye forcomic detail in all the right places pays off nifty dividends, as inZimmerman’s very funny vanity license plate. The terrific cast all delves intothe material full-bore, which contributes to its peculiar resonance. Perry mayhate everyone and everything, but in making a show of it, he’s thoroughlyentertaining. One hopes he works out his anger issues some time for his ownsake, but I’m actually worried it would have a deleterious effect on his actualart. Which could still use some refining: the movie’s narration, handsomelyread byEric Bogosian, doesn’t really achieve the formal ends that itsfaux-stilted stylings are aiming for, and in fact it could have used somecopy-editing. I’m available, Alex! Advertisement