The first time we seeMichael Keatonin his tighty-whitiesin “Birdman,” it’s from behind. His character, a formerly high-flying moviestar, is sitting in the lotus position in his dressing room of a historic Broadwaytheatre, only he’s levitating above the ground. Bathed in sunlight streaming infrom an open window, he looks peaceful. But a voice inside his head isgrowling, grumbling, gnawing at him grotesquely about matters both large andsmall. The next time we see Keaton in his tighty-whities in“Birdman,” he’s dashing frantically through Times Square at night, havingaccidentally locked himself out of that same theatre in the middle of a performanceof aRaymond Carverproduction that he stars in, wrote and directed. He’sswimming upstream through a river of gawking tourists, autograph seekers, foodcarts and street performers. But despite the chaos that surrounds him, he seemspurposeful, driven and–for the first time–oddly content. Advertisement These are the extremes that director Alejandro G. Inarritunavigates with audacious ambition and spectacular skill in “Birdman”–the fulltitle of which is “Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance).” He’s madea film that’s both technically astounding yet emotionally rich, intimate yetenormous, biting yet warm, satirical yet sweet. It’s also the first time thatInarritu, the director of ponderous downers like “Babel” and “Biutiful,”actually seems to be having some fun. Make that a ton of fun. “Birdman” is a complete blast fromstart to finish. The gimmick here–and it’s a doozy, and it works beautifully–is that Inarritu has created the sensation that you are watching a two-hourfilm shot all in one take. Working with the brilliant and inventive cinematographerEmmanuel Lubezki(who won an Oscar this year for shooting “Gravity” forInarritu’s close friend and fellow Mexican directorAlfonso Cuaron), Inarrituhas constructed the most delicate and dazzling high-wire act. And indeed,before shooting began, the director sent his cast a photo of Philippe Petitwalking a tightrope between the World Trade Center towers as inspiration. Through impossibly long, intricately choreographed trackingshots, the camera swoops through narrow corridors, up and down tight stairwaysand into crowded streets. It comes in close for quiet conversations and soarsbetween skyscrapers for magical-realism flights of fancy. A percussive andpropulsive score from Antonio Sanchez, heavy on drums and cymbals, maintains ajazzy, edgy vibe throughout. Sure, you can look closely to find where the cutsprobably happened, but that takes much of the enjoyment out of it. Succumbingto the thrill of the experience is the whole point. Just as thrilling is the tour-de-force performance fromKeaton in the role of a lifetime as Riggan Thompson, a washed-up actor tryingto regain the former glory he achieved as the winged action hero Birdman. Thefilm follows the fraught early going of his Broadway debut which is also hislast shot at greatness–although his on-screen alter ego doesn’t help much byvoicing his fears and making him doubt himself incessantly. Yes, it’s knowinglyamusing that Keaton, who peaked 20-plus years ago as a superhero, is playing anactor who peaked 20-plus years ago as a superhero. Although I’d happily argue thatKeaton’s Batman forTim Burtonin 1989 is THE definitive performance of theiconic character–but that’s a whole ‘nother conversation for another time. Advertisement Or is it? While “Birdman” exists in its own meticulouslyrealized world, it’s very much of this time and place from a pop-cultureperspective, with references to other real-life actors likeRobert DowneyJr.andMichael Fassbenderwho’ve enjoyed enormous success when they’ve donned thesuperhero duds. The script from Inarritu,Nicolas Giacobone, AlexanderDinelaris andArmando Bois cleverly meta without being too cutesy andself-satisfied. Keaton gets to toy with his persona a bit–as well asacknowledge how comparatively quiet his career has been in recent years–butseeing him in seasoned form provides its own joy. He’s still hyper-verbal andplayful and he can still be amusing and lacerating in his delivery, but there’sa wry wistfulness and even a desperation in the mix now that’s achinglypoignant. Also confronting his real-life reputation isEdward NortonasMike Shiner, the brilliant but infamously capricious actor who steps in asRiggan’s co-star just as previews are about to begin on his labor-of-love productionof “What We Talk About When We Talk About Love.” Norton, who’s come with thebaggage of being difficult and demanding over the years, finds just the rightbalance between arrogance and sincerity. Besides, they need each other, as they find in the daysleading up to opening night. They all need each other. Inarritu has amassed atremendous supporting cast and made ridiculous technical demands of them, yetthey’ve all more than risen to the occasion and relished the chance to shine.Zach Galifianakisplays strongly against type as Riggan’smanager and the rare voice of reason in the middle of all this madness. EmmaStone is adorable as Riggan’s world-weary, wise-ass daughter who also serves ashis assistant. (She and Norton have crackling chemistry in a couple of crucialscenes.)Amy Ryandoes wonders with her brief screen time as Riggan’s ex-wife;she fleshes him out and allows us to see both the selfish and the good in him.AndNaomi Watts, who starred in Inarritu’s wrenching “21 Grams,” gets to playboth light and heavy moments as a neurotic fellow cast member. It’s powerfully clear that they all worked their asses of tomake this complicated thrill ride look effortless. The result is one of thebest times you’ll have at the movies this year–which might even be the bestmovie this year. Advertisement