FromTom Hanksto David Chase, it seems there’s a favoritesubject for established media types who turn to feature film directing: guysforming a rock band. The latest to pursue this beguiling if unoriginal path isactorWilliam H. Macy, who turns out a winning, well-crafted musical drama in“Rudderless.” Macy has also chosen to take up what one critic recentlylabeled the most overworked of current dramatic premises: people recoveringfrom the death of a loved one. In this case, the aggrieved character is a dadwho eventually calls himself Sam (Billy Crudup). We start out seeing hiscollege-age son, Josh (Miles Hetzer), recording some demos of songs he’swritten. Then there’s a shooting at the college Josh attends and suddenly theboy is dead. His father and the rest of his family, needless to say, arethunderstruck. Advertisement Two years later, Sam is living solo on a sailboat, earningmoney as a house painter and drinking a lot. The latter pursuit leads him to abar that has an open mike night where locals perform their own tunes (all verycreditable compositions and performances, incidentally). One night Sam has awild idea and gets up and performs a song of Josh’s. The performance not onlygets a good reaction, it also wins him a fan. The young guy who follows him out of the bar, Quentin (AntonYelchin), seems bowled over by what he’s just heard. He also seems like a youngmusician needy for various kinds of support, inspiration and creativecompanionship. Sam, for obvious reasons, is not an easy guy to strike up afriendship with. But Quentin keeps after him, especially regarding the qualityof the songs he mysteriously harbors, and, soon enough, Sam is not only playingmore, he’s also allowing his young pal to sing and play back-up. It’s just a hop and a skip from there to forming a band withtwo other musicians (Ben Kweller, Ryan Dean). When the foursome, which callsitself Rudderless, takes the stage and cuts loose, the crowd’s reaction iseuphoric. And well it should be: The songs (credited to Simon Steadman,Charlton Steadman and Fink) are very hooky rockers, and the band’s performanceis blistering. Sam, in particular, seems reborn. This moment comes roughly halfway into the film, and it’stoo bad it’s relatively fleeting. The music is so good and the band so crediblethat this viewer would have enjoyed much more of both. Instead, the film(written byCasey Twenter,Jeff Robisonand Macy) continues on its narrativepath but grows a bit wobbly with the kinds of second-half contrivances thatsome indie dramas are prone to. These include plot strands concerning Sam’srelations with a local music store owner (Laurence Fishburne) and feuding withthe management of the marina where his boat is docked, his evolving father-sondynamic with Quentin, and a crucial last-act revelation regarding the actualcircumstances of his son’s death. Contrived or not, the story is put across with pleasing,unpretentious conviction and skill by Macy (who has a supporting turn as themanager of the watering hole where Rudderless performs). The performances heelicits from his entire cast are very flavorful and nuanced, with the two leadsproving especially impressive. Crudup, a versatile and solid performer in allcircumstances, ably conveys Sam’s sorrow and guarded yearning for a new life,while Yelchin gives Quentin an edgy, skittering energy. Both actors are alsoextremely adept at the musical aspects of their roles. If this directorial outing was in any sense an audition forthe talented Mr. Macy, he should be congratulated on passing it. Advertisement