In the recent uproar following the release of the video footage showing  Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice punching his wife Janay in the  elevator, a hashtag started trending on Twitter: #WhyIStayed. Beverly  Gooden, from North Carolina, did not watch the elevator footage, but  heard the commentary, the overwhelming refrain being, "Why didn't she  just leave?" A survivor of domestic violence herself, Gooden went on  Twitter and began a series of Tweets about why she stayed. The hashtag  started trending, as more and more people started sharing their stories.  It made national news. HBO's new feature-length documentary, "Private  Violence," directed byCynthia Hill, has been over a decade in the  making, but its release could not come at a more opportune time. A look  at the complexity of domestic violence, especially when it comes to the  difficulty of prosecuting abusers in a court of law, "Private Violence" keeps its focus narrow, a smart choice, following around Kit Gruelle, a victims' advocate from North Carolina. Advertisement Kit Gruelle lives in the mountains of North Carolina, and works with  women's shelters and law enforcement on various domestic abuse cases  about to enter the court system. She also trains first responders,  police officers and hostage negotiators on the complexities of what  goes on in domestic abuse situations. There is a fascinating scene  showing a role-playing scenario where two cops in training interview an  arguing "couple" (in reality, domestic abuse advocates). The cops  afterwards are taught what they did right, what they did wrong, what  signals they missed and what red flags they ignored. This is very important  work. Misconceptions and preconceived notions, not to mention  prejudices and judgmental attitudes, leave victims at risk. As a survivor of an abusive relationship herself, Gruelle is able to  communicate powerfully to those who cannot understand why people stay in  violent situations, and why they often keep going back. At one point, when  describing her own relationship, Gruelle says, "I would always go back  because at least then I knew where he was." "Private Violence" highlights the diversity of  Gruelle's tasks, featuring her driving around from courthouses to  shelters to doctor's offices, back to her home in the mountains. There  are a couple of moments where Gruelle is shown listening to something,  the testimony of a survivor, or, in one scene, a terrible tape sent to  her of a man whipping his wife, screaming "Don't you ever cross me!," and,  in those scenes, Hill zooms in on Gruelle's eyes, catching the  intensity of the listening going on there. Those are riveting and  empathetic moments. One can see why Hill was so taken with Gruelle as a  subject. "Private Violence" also presents the horrifying case of Deanna Walters, a woman kidnapped by her husband  and driven across the country against her will with their 2 1/2-year-old  daughter. He beat Deanna all along the way; so badly in Oklahoma that  he almost killed her. The police officer who finally pulled the truck  over and called an ambulance, said, "In the 15 years I've been a law  enforcement officer, I've never seen anybody in a car wreck as badly  beat up as that girl." However, Deanna's husband was not charged with  anything and allowed to return home to North Carolina. Deanna's daughter  was placed in foster care (Deanna saying, quietly, "That destroyed  me.") Because the two had crossed so many state lines, and because  Deanna didn't know what state she was in half the time, there was fear  that the case would get lost in the shuffle, and that nobody would want  to prosecute it on a state-level. Gruelle and others hoped that his  multiple crimes (kidnapping, assault) could be tried in a federal court  where the punishment might be steeper. (Gruelle is quick to point out  the terrible irony that kidnapping is a worse offense in the eyes of the  law than beating someone so badly she almost dies and continues to have  seizures as a result of the beating.) Deanna Walters had been asked  repeatedly, by friends, family, and then law enforcement and lawyers,  the common question: "Why didn't you leave him?" Gruelle points out:  Deannadidleave him. And he retaliated by kidnapping  her and then almost killing her. Advertisement "Private Violence" is the story the important  work of Gruelle, of Deanna Walters' case, and of the American court  system, the giant loopholes in the law, and the multiple problems with  enforcing restraining orders (as well as prosecuting those who violate  such orders.) Gruelle, appearing on a radio show, comes with a stack of  files over a foot high of restraining orders that had been violated, resulting in the women being murdered. Gruelle says, "I refer to  restraining orders as a last will and testament." As long as survivors are asked "Why didn't you just leave?" there will  be a need for advocates such as Kit Gruelle. And as long as there are  people out there like Gruelle, doing the frustrating and often thankless  work of not only keeping victims safe but bringing their abusers to  justice, there is hope. "Private Violence" is extremely sad, but it has a lot of hope."Private Violence" opened Friday in limited release and plays tonight, October 20, 2014 on HBO.