The first English-language film from Norwegian director EricPoppe is a conscientious and beautifully shot movie that ultimately bogs downin its own disinclination to come to any kind of dramatically useful conclusionabout its subject. Said subject is Rebecca. Rebecca is accomplished, brilliant,and beautiful. Just the fact that she’s played byJuliette Binochetells theviewer those things. Rebecca’s a photographer, and as the movie opens, she’ssnapping away while wearing a relatively unrestrictive hijab, chronicling agroup of other women as they prepare a…suicide bomber. Accomplished and brilliantas Rebecca is, she’s not infallible, and an explosion soon blasts the cameraout of her hands and sends her home wounded to her husband (NikolasCoster-Waldau) and two daughters. Needless to say, said husband is not tooexcited with Rebecca’s career at this point. Advertisement “You said you loved me because I had passion, I had fire…”Rebecca protests to her husband after he intimates that this time, enough’senough. It’s pretty clear right off the bat that Rebecca’s addicted to thedanger of being a war photographer; there are several senses in which thismovie feels likeKathryn Bigelow’s “The Hurt Locker” with a female protagonist.Only, alas, not as good. The scenes of domestic confrontation and argument arealmost determinedly clichéd; the adults speak in hushed tones so the childrenwon’t hear, there’s a lot of staring out of car windows. There are also a lotof stunning vistas of the Irish countryside (like a lot of European filmproductions these days, the movie largely takes place in a real landscape that’salso part of the unusual phantom zone of Europe in which non-British-accentedEnglish is the default language). By the point one of the daughters observes“When Daddy sleeps on the sofa it’s never a good time…,” my eyerolls might havebecome audible. The movie does pick up here and there, especially whenBinoche’s character gets a chance to explain why she does what she does. Whenshe lays out for her daughter the greed for diamonds and precious metals thatsets off civil wars in Africa, the character’s anger and commitment come tovivid life. The movie doesn’t sufficiently connect those commendable qualitiesto Rebecca’s recklessness, which is vividly conveyed in a scene set in anostensibly “conflict-free” site in Kenya that Rebecca visits with her daughter.When an armed group usurps that site, Rebecca ostentatiously puts herself inharm’s way after dispatching her own child with maniacal haste. Engaging butultimately frustrating scenes are one thing. Elsewhere, the movie keepsbringing home the inescapable fact that striking imagery, deliberate pacing and scrupulous goodtaste are not sufficient substitutes for genuine thoughtfulness and/or dramaticurgency. The striking imagery is also sometimes almostlaughably misplaced; the movie reaches one climax with what’s likely the mostimmaculately staged school show-and-tell scene in the history of cinema. If I’mcomplaining about this movie a lot for one I’m deeming better than fair, it’sbecause I was frustrated by how its first-rate ingredients, Binoche chief amongthem, somehow failed to create a spectacular end result.