Brad Andersonis one of our most underrated filmmakers,bringing his precise directorial eye to works like “Session 9” and “Transsiberian,”while also taking time to elevate shows such as “Fringe,” “The Wire” and “BoardwalkEmpire.” When he’s working with the right material, Anderson is a craftsman,never wasting a shot or allowing a moment to feel under-considered. Even filmsthat arguably fell apart at some point in the production process like “The Call”or “Vanishing on 7thStreet” have been elevated by Anderson’sinvolvement. (And those interested in genre should seek out his episode of “Mastersof Horror” titled “Sounds Like,” one of the best in the short-lived Showtimeanthology series.) My clear admirationfor the director amplifies my frustration with his latest. The dread andatmosphere of something like “Session 9” or “The Machinist” that should have been a natural fit here is absent. It may notbe his worst film overall, but “Stonehearst” is Anderson’s flattest film, adisappointingly shallow affair that wastes an opportunity to breathe life intoa timeless Edgar Allen Poe short story. Advertisement The opening scene of “Stonehearst Asylum” sets up a filmthat, sadly, doesn’t follow. A young woman named Eliza Graves (Kate Beckinsale)is being paraded in front of a room of mental health experts. The doctor incharge (Brendan Gleeson) claims that she is mentally ill, however Andersonfilms the scene in a way that makes the men in the room menacing, teasing a film that should follow about how much energy was expended in medical circles tomarginalize what was perceived as a lesser gender. Female sexuality was anillness to be cured. And yet even this opening scene is something of amisdirect. As Gleeson’s mad doctor says, quoting directly from the Poe story onwhich this is loosely based, “Believe nothingyou hear, and only half that you see.” The story abruptly shifts to an asylum shrouded in fog.Edward Newgate (Jim Sturgess) is the Jonathan Harker of this story, the mancoming to the dangerously-lit castle in the middle of the night. Echoes of “BramStoker’s Dracula” and “Shutter Island” hang heavy in the air, again promising afilm with something to say and personality to spare; setting a table on towhich too slight a meal is placed. Newgate is the new doctor at the titular establishment, anasylum for the rich and socially mobile. When the rich and famous don’t want tobe embarrassed by their uncle who thinks he’s a horse, they shuffle him off toStonehearst. It is where the privileged few go when their minds break. And itis an unhappy, dark place. AsBen Kingsley’s Silas Lamb says, “Misery has a way of clarifying one’scondition.” As Lamb shows Newgate around the grounds, it becomes clearthat something is very, very wrong. Despite all indications that the young manshould flee, his new infatuation with Eliza forces him to stay. He’s going tosave her; get her free of this torture palace. The male doctor as white knightfor the infirm female—again, this seems like material ripe for interestingcommentary but writerJoe Gangemiwastes every opportunity to do so. “StonehearstAslyum” becomes something of a tease: every time you think it’s going todevelop into something interesting, it pulls away from you. Fora film about insanity and abuse of power, it’s surprisingly tame.Advertisement The lack of thematic substance wouldn’t be an issue if “StonehearstAsylum” had the personality it should have with someone as talented as Andersonat the helm. “Stonehearst” should be a Hammer film, rich with dark corridorsand oppressive shadows. While the production design may be authentic, and onecan admire Anderson’s desire to stay truthful with his period, it leads toa film that’s surprisingly dull visually. I like that Anderson doesn’t resortto jump scares or other modern horror techniques, but he hasn’t replaced thosetricks of the trade with the dread required for this story to work. Of course,it’s not Anderson’s fault that Gangemi’s script is shallow and repetitive—therehas to be at least 12 scenes of Newgate trying and failing to convince Gravesto leave, for example. There’s something more disappointing about seeing greatparts that don’t cohere into an interesting sum than a film that never couldhave worked at all. Seeing legends like Kingsley,Michael CaineandDavid Thewlisin a Poe adaptation should have been a genre highlight of the year, and couldhave really been the film to make Brad Anderson a household name. Time willearn Brad Anderson the praise he deserves. And time will forget this filmexists.