In photographs taken close to the timeAlain Resnaiswas topresent his “Life of Riley” (its Frenchtitle is “Aimer, boire, et chante,” that is, “Love, Drink, and Sing,” but theEnglish title matches that of its source, a work by British playwright AlanAyckbourn) at the 2014 Berlin International Film Festival last February, thevenerated director hardly looked like a man who’d made his final movie. ButResnais went on to his final reward in June, which casts a retrospective shadowon the movie and places it in a context we can’t be sure he intended. For “Lifeof Riley” is about a man who is dying, a man who’s never seen on screen. Set,as Ayckburn’s play is, in the countryside of England, and enacted by characterswho read British newspapers and drive in cars with right-hand-side steeringwheels nevertheless speaking in French, “Life of Riley” features six charactersnot in search of an auteur but preoccupied with the impending death of an oldpal, the title character. Advertisement Riley’s an old pal, more precisely, to two of the males inthe cast, but something more to three of the females. Kathryn (Sabine Azema,Resnais’ real-life partner), the formidable, voluble wife of physician Colin(Hippolyte Girardot) is a former girlfriend who’d like to renew her closenesswith Riley. Tamara (Caroline Sihol), cast as a romantic interest opposite Rileyin an amateur theatrical production (the play-within-a-play ia also anAyckbourn work, in a typically meta touch), wants to take that relationshipinto the real world, in part to spite her philandering husband Jack (MichelVuillermoz). Riley’s youngish ex-wife Monica (Sandrine Kiberlain) is seen astorn between her compassion (Riley’s been given a sudden fatal diagnosis) andher domestic bliss with a sternly jealous new husband (André Dussolier).It’s worth noting that the disparity between the characters and the actorsplaying them, age-wise is frequently pretty great, but that’s just one aspectof the movie’ artifice, which is not unrelated to its origin as a theater work,and/or the fact of that aforementioned play-within-a-play. Everything in “Lifeof Riley,” Resnais makes plain, is a contrivance. Much of the joy and beauty ofthe movie comes from letting the levels of contrivance fall into place, as withsome Rube Goldberg contraption, creating a parallel abstract narrative to themore conventional semi-farcical one unfolding on screen. In the latter, thecomedic tension mounts as Kathryn’s character becomes more manic and bossy(Azema’s performance is an energetic tour-de-force), and the forces imposingthemselves on Riley’s simultaneously dwindling and blossoming existence (he’s apparentlythe hit of the play, and undiminished in energy at a teen’s birthday party nearthe movie’s finale) loom over him even as the unseen character plots aswitcheroo that will leave all of the on-screen characters at least slightlyaghast. As all this is going on, Resnais constructs a formal game thatincorporates transitional location shots, hand-drawn cross-hatched pen-and-inkbackdrops for close-ups (shades of his ‘90s comic-strip movie, the daring butless successful 1989 “I Want To Go Home”) and clear stage-style sets for theaction proper. At certain critical points near the end he cuts in shots of ananimatronic mole or gopher snickering, in a homage to…can it be…”Caddyshack?”Maybe. I kind of think so. So there’s no shortage of stimulating and maybe evenconfounding formal playfulness here. And it’s not there to leaven the subjectmatter; it’s integrally folded in, to suggest that matters of both life anddeath are best approached with a light touch. It’s an encouraging perspectivefrom a filmmaker whose work has never lacked for seriousness (his first featurefilm was “Hiroshima Mon Amour”) and whose late-career cosmic games aredistinguished by a joy that’s never glib (see “Wild Grass”). Still, for all ofthis, “Life of Riley” doesn’t play like adeliberate or self-conscious “last” film, its suitably elegiac final imagesnotwithstanding. It doesn’t rage against the dying of the light because itscreator’s imaginative light is burning bright throughout. Thenear-featherweight insouciance is part of the magic of “Life of Riley:” itssub-theme could be the bearable (and perhaps necessary) lightness of aginggracefully. What a way to go. If you have to go, and we all do. Advertisement