Gregg Arakiis no stranger to teen angst and provocativefilmmaking. For the last 25 years, Araki has been seemingly obsessed with theyears of sexual exploration and teenage rebellion in works like “The DoomGeneration,” “Nowhere” and “Kaboom.” He has always been an interesting,underrated voice in cinema (and helped reveal the dramatic depth of JosephGordon-Levitt in his best film, “Mysterious Skin.”) Which is what makes “WhiteBird in a Blizzard” a true oddity in his filmography in that it’s one of thefew times, arguably the only time, that he’s made a film that’s dull.Typically, when Araki misses the mark, he misses wildly and with fascinatingaplomb. “White Bird,” despite the best efforts of starsShailene WoodleyandEva Green, is flat when it should be edged; something I never thought I’d sayabout the man who made a movie called “Totally Fucked Up.” Advertisement It is the Fall of 1988, and Kat Connor (Woodley) is about tohave her life turned upside down. Well, sorta. Working from a book by LauraKasischke that one presumes lacks the melodrama other writers would havelayered into a story about the destruction of a teenage girl’s family, Arakitreats his subject matter with a heady dose of apathy. Kat’s mother, theflamboyant Eve (Eva Green), just up and disappears one day. Kat suspects thather boyfriend Phil (Shiloh Fernandez) may know more about the disappearancethan he lets on, and the cops, led by Detective Scieziesciez (Thomas Jane),suspect dear old dad (Christopher Meloni), of course. But the “mystery” of Eve’sdisappearance is never front and center in “White Bird in a Blizzard.” To behonest, little is front and center. Kat meanders through the hazy days afterher mom’s disappearance, we get a few flashbacks and then the film jumpsforward for a final chapter. And that’s it. I’m not suggesting that all films need a grand purpose, but “WhiteBird in a Blizzard” doesn’t work as mystery or character study. It’s a meltingpot of themes that have not only been handled more interestingly in recentyears but have been handled more interestingly within its own director’sfilmography—murder, apathy, obsession, sex and intrigue in suburbia. Parts ofit play broad like satire, as if Araki is doing a riff on “American Beauty,”but too much of it sits there, almost as if Araki isn't excited by the material he's been given. Not all of it just "sits there," however. As they often are, Araki’s musicchoices are clever, and I’m happy to have lived long enough to have seen anextended dance scene to Depeche Mode’s “Behind the Wheel.” And Woodley, as sheso often does, grounds the film in something genuine. She has such a natural,in-the-moment presence that she keeps us interested in Kat’s arc even when the storytellingdoesn’t. And then there’s Eva. Eva Green turns Eve into a character JoanCrawford would have told to tone it down. She is larger than life, desperate tobe the most important person in the room. And “White Bird” is at its mostinteresting when Green is allowed to play the dark soul of a woman shattered bythe realization that her daughter was suddenly more interesting than she was.Green is fantastic here, truly memorable in just a few scenes. Sadly, shecouldn’t be in all of them. Advertisement