InRuben Östlund’s sharp-edged marital drama “ForceMajeure,” a young Swedish family–mom, dad, two grade school age kids–begintheir skiing vacation in a French Alpine resort in typical holiday highspirits. The first day on the slopes, they pause to have their pictures takenen familleby a tourist photographer, asif to acquire tangible evidence of their sentimental solidarity and joy atoutdoorsy togetherness. Then, on the vacation’s second day, something extraordinaryhappens. They are having lunch at the resort’s rooftop restaurant when, justafter their food has been served, they hear a loud report from the mountainabove them, and snow begins to topple down the slopes. It’s a controlledavalanche, a common thing in ski resorts, but this one quickly comes to seemexcessive, as if it’s not under control at all. Advertisement Due to the ensuing confusion, it’s easy to miss exactly whathappens next on a first viewing of the film. But it is the crux of the story:Fearing they’re about to be engulfed by the avalanche, many diners react inpanic, and the Swedish father, Tomas (Johannes Bah Kuhnke), jumps up and fleesthe deck, leaving his wife and kids at the table. Fortunately, the avalanchestops short of the restaurant, though it sends up a billow of snow thatwhites-out the scene for a minute or two. Though terrified briefly, the dinerssoon resume their lunches. But the appearance of no-harm-done is illusory, atleast in the case of the Swedish family. Tomas at first is puzzled that his wife Ebba (Lisa LovenKongsli) appears irritated at him. What reason could she have? Rather thansaying, she shrugs it off. Their kids seem annoyed at both parents. But thereal rub comes when the parents have dinner that night with another couple.Ebba tells the story of the avalanche, and how Tomas abandoned his family tosave himself, taking his cell phone but not his son. Tomas flatly denies he didany such thing. It never happened, he says, adding defensively that he and Ebbaobviously have two different versions of what occurred. Both partners quickly come to seem shocked by theimplications of this disagreement. After what Tomas calls “that godawfuldinner,” they hug each other and agree that though the avalanche terrified thewhole family, everyone is now fine. But the avalanche of their emotions is,like the one on the mountain, not nearly as controlled as they imagine it tobe. The subject won’t go away. Östlund has said the film was inspired by an incident inwhich a Swedish couple, friends of his, went on vacation to Latin America. Theywere having dinner when gunmen burst into the restaurant and began firing.Rather than protecting his wife, the husband dove for cover. The wife wasstunned. “Back in Sweden,” the director said, “she could not stop, after aglass of wine or two, telling the story over and over again….” Östlund laterdid research on couples who survive disasters like shipwrecks, tsunamis andsuch, and found that a strikingly high percentage of them end up divorcing. Advertisement Taking the idea of a sudden upset of familial normality ashis dramatic kernel, Östlund fashions an examination of marital upset that’sbeautifully written, sometimes quite funny, and plotted with a kind of forensicexactitude. Unlike American movies, where our identification with one characteror another would likely be imposed from the outset, “Force Majeure” stands backfrom its couple, allowing us to inspect the characters from a discreet distanceand draw our own conclusions. It is important, however, both dramatically andsymbolically, that there are not two equal “truths” at work here. The wifealone is right about what happened at that fateful lunch (as a second viewingof the film will confirm). So the story is not about anything so fashionable asthe relativity of truth. It’s about what happens when one partner blatantlyfails in his duties to his family and then can’t admit or come to terms withthat offense. The film has a real feeling of cultural currency, whichsometimes comes through in small details that can seem more resonant inthinking back on them. For instance, the two people the main couple share that“godawful dinner” with are a young American guy and an older Swedish woman who’spicked him up that morning. In introducing the guy, the woman says he’s toldher he’s “very religious.” He replies that he said no such thing, only thathe’s “not an atheist.” Beyond another example of a man and a woman narrating thesame incident differently, this moment reminds us that “Force Majeure” is aSwedish film belonging to the era afterIngmar Bergman’s “silence of God.” Withno Deity to blame for that avalanche–an “act of God” to some–the humans inthis tale are left to fend for themselves. A prize-winner at Cannes this year, and easily one of themost impressive European dramas of late, “Force Majeur” is assured and finelycalibrated on every level, with especially expert, nuanced performances by itsleads. Östlund’s cool, distanced style–the camera often follows charactersfrom behind with fluid motions, or gazes down from a height at the ski slopesor the hotel’s interiors–has been compared to that ofMichael Haneke, thoughthe adjective “Kubrickian” might also be applied: Though less horrific (orfinal) than that of “The Shining,” the alpine marital ordeal chronicled here isno less striking. Advertisement