I playedwith a Ouija board exactly one time. More on that shortly. What amuses me aboutthe game, and that amusement transfers over to the movie version, is that itproves that there is no such thing as bad publicity. People my age willremember campfire tales and urban legends about unlucky fools who were punishedfor choosing to contact the deceased using the spirit board trademarked byHasbro, and if not, I’m sure you remember the 1986 movie “Witchboard,” if onlyfor Tawny Kitaen appearing in it. Advertisement Regardless,whenever the Ouija board gets mentioned, something horrible is associated withit. No one ever tells a story about some schlub whose Ouija board told him theMega Millions numbers, or some lucky lady who rocked the stock market based ontips from the afterworld. It’s always “she was messin’ with that Ouija boardand a spirit KILLED her ass!” In all the stories I heard growing up, playerswound up as dead as most of the cast of “Ouija.” And yet, people still boughtthe product. There’s probably even a Ouija app for your phone, so it can killyou before your Apple bill does. I’m beingfacetious—sort of. The obvious allure of the Ouija board, and why the “based onthe board game by Hasbro” credit appears prominently in this movie, is thatthese creepy stories are why people bought the product in the first place. Inthe current economy, Monopoly makes a more appropriate board game upon which to basea horror movie, but for what it is, “Ouija” is better than expected. I like thesekinds of kitchen-sink movies, films where, in an attempt to rattle you, theytoss everything at you but the kitchen sink. “Ouija” gets a few extra pointsbecause it feels like the filmmakers were actually trying to tell a decentcampfire story. The movie has a nice visual polish and a story that covers allthe narrative bases of a good spooky bedtime story. DirectorStiles Whitetimesits jump scares with the knowledge that jump scares are silly and predictable: Agas stove comes on with the sound of a jet engine, mirrors always have badthings reflected in them and a flashlight rolling away always stops rolling toilluminate something unfriendly. This is amovie where the old reliable kitty cat flying out of the dark has been replacedby the goofy boyfriend. If they’d had a jump scare where the appearing-out-of-nowheregoofy boyfriend had a kitty cat jumping out of his arms, I’d have probably givenmore stars. “Ouija”begins with a rather creepy opening murder. After a flashback showing achildhood Ouija game, Laine (Olivia Cooke) arrives to pick up her best friendDebby (Shelly Hennig). Debby has just violated both of the Ouija game rules heryounger version revealed in that flashback: she’s played the game alone and she’sburned her copy of the game. Debby begs off going out and dies a gruesome deathsoon after. The coroner deems it a suicide, but we know better. Advertisement Lainebecomes obsessed with why Debby would kill herself, so she decides to use theOuija board to try and contact her. Finally, somebody is putting this thing togood use! In my one encounter with the Ouija board, my cousin asked it aquestion any living relative of my family could have answered. Laine, who was alwaysthe one kid scared enough to believe the Ouija was real, has a legitimate queryone can’t get answered in this realm. She convinces her friends to play along, using the same game Debby tried burning earlier in the film. They go toDebby’s house, which makes sense I guess, and before the spirit that comesthrough can spell out its entire name (it only gets to the D), everyone assumesit’s Debby. This is what years of autocorrect will do to your brain. Had theyjust been patient, they’d have seen that this was no Debby. You knowwhat happens next, and “Ouija” knows you know. Writers White andJuliet Snowdenpump up the tale with murdered little girls, sewn-together mouths, good reasonsnever to floss, crazy, murderous mediums and an appearance by the alwayswelcomeLin Shaye. Shaye gives her exposition-heavy role the right amount oflunacy, menace and charm. She fills in the blanks that help Laine and herfriends understand who exactly they’ve reached out and touched through theOuija board. Her last scene, filled withmaniacal laughter, probably mimics the Universal executives’ response when theysee this weekend’s box office grosses. Though Iadmit 16-year old me enjoyed the hell out of “Witchboard,” I didn’t think I’dhave fun at “Ouija.” But I did, and assisting me were actors who gave theirpaper thin teenage types a little humor and character, and the film’s look. Shotby veteran camera operator, David Emmerichs, “Ouija” is a glossy hoot, showingmore flair than a throwback to the 80’s horror movie should. As a lifelonghorror movie viewer, I wasn’t scared by the film, but I dug the many ways ittried to goose me. By the way,the question my cousin asked Ouija was whether my devoutly Baptist aunt wouldwhup us for playing the game in her house when she explicitly told us not to doso. The board said no. I wish she had asked “when is my mother coming home?” The answer might have spared me a sore behind. Advertisement