Movies aboutmen in states of arrested development are legion. They’re the reason JuddApatow,Adam Sandlerand others too numerous to mention have careers. In filmafter film, male actors riff on the asinine notion that “boys will be boys”while their understanding, far more mature female counterparts smile andeagerly wait for them to grow up. These characters are free to be hurtful,dangerous, horrible, mean and idiotic if they so desire. It’s all presented with the excuse of “hey, this is how dudes act.” Advertisement “Laggies”aims to flip the gender script, offering upKeira Knightleyas Megan, an immature 29-yearold wandering aimlessly through life. But since it can’t rely on blaming a Ychromosome for Megan’s affliction, “Laggies” is forced to either dive fearlesslyinto immaturity with her or stand on the sidelines to tsk-tsk. It chooses thelatter, much to my chagrin. Megan’ssense of humor is still 16, as is her sense of entitlement, and her friends arestarting to outgrow her. Megan’s high school girlfriends are getting married,working at jobs, having children—you know, stuff adults do—and the mere notionterrifies Megan. She works as a sign-twirler for her dad (Jeff Garlin) and isstill dating her sweet but dull high school boyfriend. When the boyfriendproposes to her at another friend’s wedding, Megan feels the hot breath ofadulthood breathing down with a vengeance on her damn-near-thirty neck. Actionis swiftly taken. In anattempt to recapture her treasured adolescence, Megan runs off to join a circusof teenage girls. She first meets them outside a supermarket, where theirleader, Annika (Chloe Grace Moretz), asks Megan to buy them some booze. Feelinga kinship to Annika’s underage dilemma, Megan pays it forward for all of theadults who once bought booze for her. Feeling a combination of mentor and peer,Megan even offers up suggestions on what the teens should imbibe. Annika isimpressed that the elderly (in her eyes, that is) Megan can still rock a skateboard,and the two become quick buddies. Annika gives Megan a cell phone, and beforeyou can say “Friends and Framily,” Megan is crashing at Annika’s house for aweek. To avoid suspicion, Megan tells her fiancé that she’s attending a careerseminar out of town. During her stay, Megan proves useful to Annika for thingslike pulling one over on the school principal, and Annika returns the favor bymaking Megan feel like she’s still one of the cool high school girls. But how, youmay ask, does Megan live under Annika’s roof yet not get caught by her parents?Well, she gets caught—and a whole lot more—by Annika’s dad, Craig (SamRockwell). This is where “Laggies” starts to fall apart. Craig is a typicalRockwell role, cocky and arrogant. In his short screen time, Rockwell createsthe most interesting character inAndrea Seigel’s debut screenplay. Watchinghim, you see the apple hasn’t fallen far from the tree. Annika possesses hissharp, snarky wit and his no-nonsense b.s. detector. His single dadrelationship with his daughter is a ripe subplot waiting to be exploited, if onlyas a reminder to Megan of how aggravating adolescence can be. Yet Craig isstrictly a plot device. The way he is eventually used is insulting to thecharacter, Megan and the audience. Advertisement I cop to notbeing a fan ofLynn Shelton’s work. Her films fall apart in their third acts.Rather than simply crumble as they have in her prior work, the third act of “Laggies”implodes in grand fashion, spewing contrivances, bad clichés and an ending thatis simply unforgivable. With thatsaid, Shelton does play to her strength with actors here. There isn’t a badperformance to be found. Of particular note is Moretz, who continues toimpress by being one of the most giving actresses working today. “Laggies” wasthe third film of hers I saw at the Toronto Film Festival, and after watchingher self-confident turn in the great “Clouds of Sils Maria” and her excellentdiner table scene in “The Equalizer,” I’m convinced that few young actors todaycan match her ability to be so reliably present and charitable in moments with another actor. Her emotionalmoments here nourish the other actors’ responses, elevating everyone in the scene. When thefilm ended, I asked “Why did Megan wind up here?” I’d consider the final scene anallowance for Megan to have not learned much on her journey, but “Laggies” israrely on the side of her immaturity. Knightley, who is game for the darknessher role could contain, is never afforded the same agency a male version of hercharacter would have. The film keeps forcing her to err on the side oflikability, while hinting it does not support her actions. In anamusing nod to the fact that teenagers are usually played in movies by peopleKnightley’s age, Craig immediately pegs Megan as “not a teenager.” He allowsthis sexy, strange woman to stay in his house for no reason I could deduceother than that he might be able to bang her. “Laggies” shows him to be theonly “cool adult” in Megan’s world; everyone else is presented as needy or adrag for not having time to pursue the frivolity Megan so desperatelycraves. You'll want to run away from theadulthood “Laggies” promotes. The movie just doesn’t provide a credible place toescape.