Though superlatives can mischaracterize any movie’squalities, it is not an overstatement, I think, to call “Citizenfour,” LauraPoitras’ film about Edward Snowden, the movie of the century (to date). That statement is meant, first off, to suggest certainthings about its relation to our collective past, present and future. No film so boldly X-rays certain crucial changeswrought upon the world, and especially America and its government, by theterrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. No film so demands to beseen by every sentient person who values his or her own freedom and privacy. No film so clearly implies actions that need to be taken toprevent the 21stcentury from turning into an Orwellian nightmare inwhich technologically-enabled tyranny is absolute and true political liberty,for all intents and purposes, nonexistent. Advertisement This is not to say that “Citizenfour” is a perfect film, ifanyone believes that such a thing exists. On the contrary, perhaps more thanany documentary in history, it invites endless questions about what Poitraschose to put in and leave out, to emphasize and to elide. But such debates areonly a secondary–if very fascinating–aspect of a broader national andinternational discussion that the film deserves to start. They do nothing todiminish its colossal importance. Indeed, no film has ever been historic in quite the way thisone is, since it tells a story in which the filmmaker and her work play acrucial part. It’s as ifDaniel Ellsberghad a friend with a movie camera whofilmed his disclosure of the Pentagon Papers every step of the way. Or if theWatergate burglars had taken along a filmmaker who shot their crimes and thecover-up that followed. Except that the issues “Citizenfour” deals with are,arguably, a thousand times more potent than Vietnam or Watergate. The part of the film that shows Edward Snowden beinginterviewed in Hong Kong in June of 2013 (doesn’t it seem longer ago?) occupiesroughly an hour in the middle of its slightly less than two-hour length. Thefilm begins, eerily, like a latter-day “Parallax View,” with shots from a carmoving through a dark traffic tunnel (in Hong Kong, it turns out) as Poitrasreads emails she received from the then-anonymous Snowden. One says that hedidn’t choose her for the work she is going to do with him; she made the choicethrough the films she previously made. A title says that after 2006 (when herIraq film “My Country, My Country” came out) she was placed on a secretgovernment watch list and thereafter stopped and searched dozens of times asshe tried to enter the U.S. This harassment, she notes, prompted her to move toBerlin. Although she doesn’t say it, Poitras was at workon a film about government surveillance before she first heard from Snowden,and some of that footage comprises much of the first half-hour of“Citizenfour.” We see journalist Glenn Greenwald, who will become part of theSnowden story, working at his home in Rio de Janeiro in 2012. We see Directorof National Intelligence James Clapper and Director of the National SecurityAgency (NSA) Keith Alexander both lying to Congress–presumably under oath–aboutthe extent of the government’s spying on American citizens. Advertisement But perhaps the most important part of this de factoprologue concerns William Binney, a government intelligence analyst who turnedwhistleblower to protest abuses he saw taking place in the government’s actionsafter 9/11. For his troubles, Binney was raided by FBI agents who stormed intohis house with guns drawn. The examples of Binney and others like him of courseindicate the ridiculousness of the claim–made by President Obama and othersin the government and media–that everything would have been fine if Snowdenhad gone through “proper channels” to make his revelations to the Americanpublic. After contacting Poitras via encrypted email, and laterasking her to involve Greenwald, the still nameless Snowden–“citizenfour” isthe first alias he uses–asks the two to go to New York and await furtherinstructions. He then tells them to meet him in Hong Kong (which he has chosenthinking it may be further from the eyes of U.S. intelligence than otherplaces). In my view, the film’s single biggest flaw lies in notsaying at this point that Snowden sent Poitras and Greenwald massive numbers ofsecret files concerning government surveillance, which they were able to perusebefore meeting him. In any case, these materials formed the basis of storiesthe two wrote from Hong Kong, Greenwald for The Guardian, Poitras for TheWashington Post. (An account of what Snowden sent the journalists can be foundin Greenwald’s book “No Place to Hide,” which deserves to be read in tandemwith “Citizenfour.”) We do not see Poitras and Greenwald meeting Snowden in thelobby of Hong Kong’s Mira Hotel (Greenwald recalled they were stunned at howyoung he was), but within minutes of arriving in Snowden’s room Poitras has setup here camera and begun filming. True to hercinema veriteethos, the filmmaker mostly remains unseen andunheard, leaving the questioning to Greenwald, and, beginning on the second day,another reporter from The Guardian, Ewan MacAskill. The hour we spend with Snowden and company is matter-of-factand in some ways undramatic, yet it is one of the most absorbing things I’veever seen in a film. (Having now watched the movie three times, I found thissegment even more riveting on the third viewing than on the first.) What grabsyou here is not, of course, the contents of Snowden’s revelations, which havebeen widely reported. Rather, it’s the sense of watching a small group ofindividuals embarked on an enterprise that they know is of tremendoushistorical import, yet also potentially dangerous and with no guaranteedoutcome. In such a context, every small gesture, pause and decision can seem totake on great meaning, creating a constant sense of tension and discovery. Advertisement Then there is the presence of Snowden. In the early storiesGreenwald begins filing from Hong Kong, which create an immediate internationalsensation, he doesn’t identify his source, in part because Snowden says hewants the attention to go to the explosive materials he’s providing rather thanto himself. Yet the attention must soon enough shift to him because, as he madeclear to Poitras early on, he intends to identify himself publicly and takewhatever consequences may come, hoping he will thereby inspire others to do thesame. So, a few days into their meetings, Poitras films a 12-minute interviewwith him, which is released to the media, and almost instantly Snowden’s faceand name are known all over the globe. Through all of this, the man himself remains a picture ofremarkable calm, poise and good spirits. In his book Greenwald says he was soexcited in Hong Kong that he couldn’t sleep more than two hours per night, andthus could only marvel at Snowden’s ability to turn in at 10 p.m. for exactlyseven and a half hours of sleep. Such details are significant because, in one sense, the realdrama in “Citizenfour”–and it’s something no book could give us–lies in ourobserving Snowden and coming to our own conclusions about his character andmotives. No doubt the movie will inspire various reactions. For myself, I takethe guy at face value. He seems eminently sane and decent, a good guy, smart,articulate, good-humored and, given the circumstances he’s brought uponhimself, incredibly courageous. As for his motives, it befits his status as a millennialthat he’s passionate about the potential of the Internet and the dangers of itsabuse. Like Greenwald and Poitras, he is also alarmed at the power thegovernment has accumulated to spy on its own citizenry virtually without limitsor controls, and without the country’s knowledge. He says, in his usual ratherformal way of speaking: “I am more willing to risk imprisonment, or any othernegative outcome personally, than I am to risk the curtailment of myintellectual freedom and that of those around me, whom I care for equally as Ido for myself.” Advertisement After eight days, Snowden leaves the hotel with the help ofChinese human rights lawyers and decamps to a U.N. facility and then a safehouse. We see him thereafter in only two scenes somewhat later in Moscow,whence he is spirited with the help of WikiLeaks, and where the governmenteventually grants him one year of political asylum. In the film’s last half-hour, Poitras gives us an almostimpressionistic chronicle of events flowing from Snowden’s revelations,including Greenwald in Brazil talking with reporters and government peopleabout U.S. spying; William Binney and others testifying on the same subject inEurope; lawyers meeting pro bono to discuss legal strategy for Snowden; the bizarredetention of Greenwald’s partner in London and their reunion in Rio. No movie has ever been more justified in including “citizen”in its title, and I’m not speaking of just the acts of heroic citizenship bySnowden, which deserve to be studied and emulated for centuries. The bleakestimplication of the film is that every government soon swallows up those whoenter it and squelches the impulse for meaningful dissent. Why has no member ofCongress risen to defend Snowden, who is a hero to much of the country and willbe more so once this film is widely seen? Why have the governments of Germanyand Brazil, two powerful nations outraged by Snowden’s revelations, not offeredhim asylum? Changing such things, the film very clearly implies, willdepend on citizens willing to challenge the power of their governments. Throughouttheir activities, Snowden, Greenwald and Poitras took a gamble on practicingexactly the kind of transparency and straightforwardness in their work thatthey want to see in the government. The idea being that the more in the publiceye they were, the more protected from nefarious doings by the government. Ithas worked, obviously…but only to a point. Snowden’s revelations got out, butwhat has become of them? It is to be hoped that “Citizenfour”–as it rolls out into theaters in the nextmonths, screens on HBO and goes to the Oscars–will reignite debate and action on all the appropriatefronts. Advertisement