Expectations can be a burden, and “Happy New Year” is heavyladen: directorFarah Khanand leading manShahrukh Khan(no relation) havemade two prior features, 2004's “Main Hoon Na” and 2007's “Om Shanti Om,” thatfall anywhere between “a lot of fun” and “all-time classic” depending on whomone asks, and there are plenty of people one can ask, as both films wereenormously popular. Not to mention, Farah's choreography kept Shahrukh fromfalling off the top of a train in “Dil Se.” For Western audiences unfamiliarwith these titles, suffice to say, this director-star duo's reunion is A VeryBig Deal. And, as if that wasn't enough, they've been developing, to some degreeor other, “Happy New Year” for almost a decade. Advertisement While a compelling argument that expecting another “OmShanti Om” or a work of similarly awe-inspiring scale is setting the barunfairly high, even resetting all factors to neutral, “Happy New Year” would bea mysteriously sloppy piece of work. Its premise is a tantalizing one giventhe director's immense skill as a choreographer and visual stylist and defthand with comedy. The son of a convicted thief assembles a team to exactrevenge against the sinister tycoon who framed the father by stealing a set ofinvaluable diamonds, which requires that the avengers enter a dancecompetition. The execution of that premise is extremely erratic; there are fewmovies in living memory that ricochet between shockingly offensive comic business and utterly disarming hilarity as drastically as this one. It's that mercurial aspect to the comedy that causeshesitation before branding it outright as homophobic or racist. There aremean-spirited straight male gay panic gags side by side with awkward  but clearly affectionate normalizing of gaydesire. There are truly shocking moments of racism toward East Asians(including a “they all look alike” joke that, although scorned by anothercharacter on-screen, is still a “they all look alike” joke in 2014), side byside with a whole subplot about Shahrukh showing how progressive he is by beingnice to a North Korean kid. Almost the entire first half of the movie, until theintermission, is a bit of a disaster. The second half, featuring more dancingand the fruition of the heist plot, is a good deal more fun. The heistsequences are tensely staged, goofily over-the-top convolution in the spirit of“Ocean's Eleven” or Shahrukh Khan's own “Don” remake and sequel, defying logicand even rational linearity at every turn, and quite fun. But it's the dancesequences, featuring cortex-melting costume design and Farah Khanchoreography—it's not her best work, but even a slightly off-her-game FarahKhan towers over mere mortals—go a long way toward making the whole enterpriseworthwhile. Advertisement That the sum total of the enterprise is “a bunch of moviestars goofing off and dancing a bit” shouldn't serve entirely as a dismissal.Abshishek Bachchan is a surprising standout in a dual role as the villain'slayabout son—complete with blue contact lenses and a hilariously on-pointAmerican accent—and the out-of-control drunk the good guys recruit because he'sa dead ringer. Often a fatally stiff actor and atrocious dancer, Bachchan seemslike someone opened his physical comedy valve here, giving his loosest,funniest performance in years, if not ever. And as for his dancing, well, thewhole point is that the heroes are bad dancers here. Deepika Padukone's role asthe professional brought in to whip them into shape is lamentably small andundemanding; hiring a star of her caliber for a role this undemanding isoverkill. But that's one of “Happy New Year”'s principal reasons for being:everyone in the movie is a star. This is not, to put it mildly, Shahrukh Khan operating atthe peak of his powers. That Padukone quotes one of his better moments (amotivational speech he delivered to the girl's field hockey team he coached in“Chak De! India”) with the genders flipped, before cutting to an annoyedreaction shot from SRK, says a lot aboutthe movie as a whole. That and other callbacks to his previous glories merelyhighlight the degree to which he's on autopilot for much of the film here. But,as with the director, even sub-peak SRK is better than most. Where this differsis that there are a bunch of other movie stars visibly trying a lot harderright there in the same scenes with him. If “Happy New Year” inspires anyone to check out “Main HoonNa” or “Om Shanti Om,” it will count as a success on that ground alone. On itsown merits, it has some wildly fun dance sequences, some funny bits, and animpressive roster of mainstream Bollywood talent. It's a shame that thosepositives can't entirely outweigh the messy, lazy and dumb stuff that pads outthe remainder of the running time.