On April 10, 2010, the Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded in the Gulf of  Mexico, killing 11 workers on the rig, and dumping what amounted to  almost 5 million barrels of crude into the gulf. The leak continued  without interruption for 87 days, devastating the Gulf coastline, its  wildlife, its beaches and its entire fishing industry (the main source  of income for many in the bayou). BP's lack of response to the initial  spill brought ferocious criticism to the company. BP tried to pass the  blame off onto Transocean, the company to whom they leased the rig.  Years have passed. Many who have put in claims to BP for financial  compensation have yet to see any cash. Just last month, however, a  federal judge stated that BP was the one most responsible for the spill,  and the company could be looking at fines of up to $18 billion. Even in  the oil industry, that is a lot of money. Margaret Brown's documentary  "The Great Invisible" personalizes the well-publicized event, bringing  us close to those affected by it, fishermen, survivors and seafood workers: the "invisible" victims of the massive catastrophe. Winner of the SXSW  Grand Jury Prize for Documentary, "The Great Invisible" is strongest  when it focuses on the micro rather than the macro. How the spill  impacted individuals in the region is the real story of "The Great  Invisible." Advertisement Brown hails from Alabama, and her wonderful 2008 documentary "The Order  of Myths" was a full-immersion look at Mobile's long-standing Mardi Gras  celebration (one for whites, one for blacks). It was territory Brown  knew well (her grandfather was interviewed for the documentary), and the  film felt personal and confident. "The Great Invisible" lacks that  intimacy, and the fact that BP refused to participate in the making of  the documentary inhibited Brown's approach. Her only "way in" was  through the residents of the bayou and those who had worked on the rig.  These are touching interviews, mixed with footage from news stories  about the spill, and C-Span footage of hearings in the U.S. House of  Representatives, where one of the oil company CEOs admitted point-blank  under tough questioning, "We are not well-equipped to handle" spills.  All of this was well-documented at the time, the BP spill dominating the  news for weeks. There aren't any revelations in "The Great Invisible",  in terms of how poorly the spill was handled, and how badly the region  was impacted. That was front page news. The aftermath lingers, however,  and "The Great Invisible" is an urgent reminder. Brown's gift is in the interviews she gets, which include a grieving  father whose son was killed in the explosion and two oil rig workers who  now suffer from a variety of maladies, including PTSD and depression  (one guy pulls W. Somerset Maugham's "The Razor's Edge" off of his  crowded bookshelf and explains that he had read it in college, but now  he really "vibes" to it in a different way because of what he has gone  through). Brown also interviews many seafood workers in Bayou La Batre,  the seafood capital of Alabama. The shrimp boat captains, the workers  who crack open oysters, the ones whose livelihood dried up post-spill…these are the front-line witnesses to the financial impact. These  details provide texture and understanding of the area. One small boy,  seen in a classroom discussion about the spill, talks with some hurt  about "everyone up in the Northern states" who have no concept of  just how bad it is down there. The most interesting man we meet is Roosevelt Harris, a seemingly  full-time volunteer for a local church, who collects donated food and  drives it around to those in need. He is a one-man charity organization.  He cooks up spaghetti, knowing that he may need to feed 300 people. If  there is any information to be imparted about BP's compensation plans,  he is the one who spreads the word. Roosevelt drives through an area  called Hardluck City, where people live in trailers, tents, old school  buses, old boats. These people are off the grid, poverty-struck,  desperate, proud. One guy has nailed up a sign on the side of his  trailer: "Nothing left to steal." Roosevelt is a talker, entertaining  and informative, supportive and optimistic, although at one point he  admits to the camera, "Alabama's my home state but I declare I wish I been  born somewhere else." If there is a hero in "The Great Invisible,"  Roosevelt is it. He does good because someone has to do good in this  world. It feels good to help others. Roosevelt understands the social  contract. Advertisement The closest Brown gets to the oil industry is showing the massive oil  conference that occurs every year, with CEOs and executives descending  on Houston from all over the world to present the latest technology,  hob-nob, and bask in their own reflected glory. It's an interesting  glimpse into a world rarely seen. A group of executives go out for  seafood, drink Scotch, smoke cigars, and talk about oil. The  conversation they have is fascinating, as they address the problem of  consumers wanting cheap gasoline, and the challenges of the industry as a  whole. We are all a part of the oil problem as it exists currently, and  these guys know that, and speak knowledgeably about it. Brown chooses  to film their conversation in a pretty heavy-handed way, with closeups  of cigar smoke and platters covered in delicious-looking shellfish, with  the Houston skyline in the background. It is impossible to look at  these guys and not contrast it to the residents of Hardluck City, but it  would be a mistake to dismiss their commentary entirely.The ending of "The Great Invisible" leaves one with a hopeless and  enraged feeling, a sense that BP has escaped responsibility entirely,  that nothing has changed and another catastrophic spill is inevitable.  The ruling in September 2014, declaring BP the main culprit of the  spill, could be a watershed moment. BP has contested the ruling, and  there will be a lengthy appeals process, but no one can say now that BP  has escaped responsibility. United States Attorney General Eric H.  Holder Jr. said in response to the ruling, “We are pleased. The court’s  finding will ensure that the company is held fully accountable for its  recklessness." Let's hope.