In a note at the beginning of this picture, the premise,which is pretty much identical to the first “ABCs of Death” premise, is laidout: 26 filmmakers were assigned a word beginning with a particular letter andtold, more or less, to go and make a horror short based on that word. “Theywere given complete artistic freedom,” the note continues. I detect a certainpride in this particular assertion. This movie is the work of hardcore genrefans turned moviemakers—one of the producers, Mark Walkow, is in fact an oldfriend of mine from back in the days of laser discs, and well I rememberchatting animatedly with him about disgracefully expurgated versions oflatter-day horror classics floating about. Standing behind the most dangerousvisions of the filmmakers one commissions is commendable, for sure. There’s a“but” though, and you don’t need to be Einstein or Irving Thalberg or Joseph E.Levine to guess what the “but” involves, and that’s quality control. So this“ABCs of Death” is, either as a result of a surfeit of artistic freedom or justmy own narrower-than-the-producers’ strictures of taste, as much of ahit-and-miss affair as the first, which came out in 2012. Advertisement It is worth noting that, for this viewer, who is indeed along time horror fan himself, the spottiness was not the result of a certainmode of repetition that the structure of this omnibus encourages. The titles ofthe individual episodes are revealed after, rather than before the episodesthemselves, which tends to give said titles the quality of punchlines. Nowwhile it’s pretty obvious from the get-go that the “R” episode will be called “Roulette,”in other cases the punchline option is used with great brio, or as a drollformal commentary (as is the case with the “S” episode, directed by JuanMartinez Moreno and my absolute favorite of the bunch). What’s not necessarilyunsurprising is that the gimmick doesn’t get as old as you’d figure givenits iteration. So that’s good. And while early on one feels that the brevityrequired to get 26 short films into a two-hour slot is likely to impose a sameyabstraction on the proceedings, that doesn’t happen either. Each filmmakertakes his or her ball and makes the most out of it.What results is a survey ofwhat’s both glorious or at least intriguing about the directions incontemporary horror, and what’s problematic as well. Often at the same time.For instance, in the aforementioned Juan Martinez Moreno episode, ahome-invasion tale distinguished by really virtuosic multi-screen manipulationsof cinematic space and genuinely excruciating tension, the ghastly pause totake in the full measure of a GAPING HEAD WOUND does—not to sound like yourgrandfather who remembers back when movies could be scary without all thegore—feel a little gratuitous. A certain aspect of The Larger Problem WithContemporary Horror is actually addressed in the next film, the “T” episode, abracing and refreshingly snide—and icky—feminist observation from tyros Jen andSylvia Soska. Little thematic fillips of this sort help make the stretch from“S” to “W” maybe the strongest of the whole feature, and the streak is brokenwith a blindingly obvious “X” that’s surprisingly by “Inside” maestro JulienMaury, who’s defeated by getting too cute. I suppose in a cultural environmentin which the word “misogynist” is applied to all manner of cultural materialwith less than perfect discrimination, the final episode actually achieves thisstate, and does so while trying to one-up an infamous sequence from an infamousLucio Fulcimovie. Points for grandstanding here go to directorChris Nash,whose name is likely to make me get up and run the other way from hereon in. (Iknow, I’m giving short shrift to “Y” here, which is the directorial debut ofveteran Japanese makeup-effects artist Soichi Umezawa. And is a little betterthan OK.) Genre fans will I suppose understand me well when I say thatwhile I might have only fully enjoyed fewer than half the entries in this film,I am eager to see the next installment.