Christine Lucas (Nicole Kidman) wakes up every day thinkingthat she’s 15 years younger than her actual age. She doesn’t recognize the manlying next to her. The 40-year-old in the mirror doesn’t look right. She’s noteven sure where she is. Not unlikeGuy Pearce’s memorable lead in “Memento,”Christine has psychogenic amnesia. She was in a car accident over a decade ago.Since that day, she has rebooted after every night’s sleep. She doesn’tremember anything that happened the day before, and only gets occasional flashesof memory of the past 14 years. Her husband Ben (Colin Firth) has to go throughthe same routine every morning, helped by photos on the bathroom wall withPost-Its like “Ben, Your Husband.” Each day, Ben explains Christine’spredicament to her, as he goes to work and she sits around the house, waitingfor the next night’s restart button. Advertisement From the very beginning of “Before I Go to Sleep,” this premisefeels faulty, at best. As directed byRowan Joffe(“Brighton Rock”), theopening scenes make it clear that this is not afilm with actual characters or relatable people within it. There’s no exhaustionin Ben’s voice, as there would be having done this routine every single day. Everythingabout the moment reeks of manipulative set-up instead of something real, andthat feeling that you’re being as played with as Christine herself. “Before IGo to Sleep” is a movie with nothing to hold on to but a paper-thin mysterywith really only one of two possible suspects in the end. As you can guess, there’s more to Christine’s story than Ben’sinitial explanation. After her husband leaves for work, she gets a call fromDr. Nasch (Mark Strong), a neuropsychologist who has been working with her forthe past few weeks. He tells her to find the digital camera in the back of her wardrobe.She’s been recording revelations every day, reminding herself of what she’sdiscovered about Ben, her “accident” and more. She hasn’t lost her memory froma car accident. She was brutally attacked. By whom? Why? And what else is Benkeeping from her? How much could you trust someone who you think is a strangereven if he tells you he’s not? Of course, every question in a film like this has an answer.It’s a screenwriting exercise more than a film. It’s hollow, the kind of quickbeach read that could satisfy on a summer vacation (and was based on such abook) but Joffe hasn’t justified transitioning it to the big screen. There’s noedge, no pulp, no grit under its fingernails. Part of the problem is that Joffe seems bored by his ownmaterial. “Before I Go to Sleep” needed to be stylish to play like a classicthriller or edgy to replicate the sense of confusion inherent in Christine’ssituation. It’s neither. The film is visually flat, disappointingly shot mostlyin boring close-ups as one of the three central actors explains what’shappening now. And Joffe and his team try to increase the film’s intensity withboring, cheap sound design, with multiple occasions of trucks that barely missChristine as she’s crossing the street or quick cuts to a loud, overhead plane.It’s supposed to be unsettling. It’s just cheap. Advertisement Partially by virtue of its piling-up revelations and dualsuspect structure (only Ben or Dr. Nasch could be the “bad guy” since there’sno one else in the movie that seems to matter, especially not a character named Claire who really could have been named Plot Device), “Before I Go to Sleep” is afilm that’s constantly explaining itself to you.Here’s what Christine knows now. Here’s the latest revelation. Here’show she feels about it. Every scene is designed to push you to a newrevelation. Honestly, I longed for just one scene of everyday life in Christine’sexistence to add an ounce of realism to the production. It’s a film with nocharacters. To be fair, the fact that Kidman gets this much honest emotion out ofthis script is a testament to her skill level. With a lesser actress, theresult would be even more disingenuous. She gives it her all. The movie justgives nothing back to her.