Daniel Radcliffemade his name battling evil inthe “Harry Potter” movies. In “Horns,” Radcliffe’s latest effort to distancehimself from the iconic boy wizard, he turns into the Devil himself–albeit anangsty, hipster version. Radcliffe has an immensely appealing presence no matter whathe’s doing, and he’s made inspired, daring choices to demonstrate hisversatility outside of “Harry Potter,” from going nude on Broadway in “Equus”to starring as a youngAllen Ginsbergin “Kill Your Darlings” to playing anoversexed version of himself on HBO’s “Extras.” Advertisement “Horns” would seem like another gamble, and anotheropportunity to stretch. It’s a supernatural thriller, territory he’s familiarwith, but taken to a raunchy, grotesque extreme. But directorAlexandre Aja,whose background is mostly in straight-up horror (“High Tension,” “The HillsHave Eyes”), has trouble navigating the shifts between broad humor and intensescares. At the same time, some of the most entertaining moments come in theform of wildly graphic violence, reminiscent of Aja’s hilariously campy“Piranha 3D,” but there’s so much else happening here that those images almostfeel like they belong in another movie. There are some clever ideas in the scriptfromKeith Bunin, based on the novel byJoe Hill, but they get mixed up in someawkward tonal juggling. Radcliffe stars as Ignatius Perris, a young man who’s wrongfullysuspected in the gruesome killing of his childhood sweetheart, the ethereallybeautiful Merrin (Juno Temple, who–like Radcliffe–is effectivelysuppressing her English accent). Merrin is found with her head bashed in, lyingat the foot of the tree house that was her hideaway with Ig, in the forest of ableakly scenic Washington logging town. Nothing he says or does to clear hisname works; with narrative glimmers of “Gone Girl” (but precious little of thesubtlety), all evidence points to him. And the fact that the hard-drinking Igcan’t remember exactly what happened because he was hammered that night doesn’thelp his cause. So he bitterly chooses to accept the role of villain, and ina twisted take on the wish fulfillment of “FreakyFriday,” wakes up one morningto find that horns–actual, literal horns–have sprouted from his forehead. Theyhurt, as you would imagine, but they also bring another unexpected side effect:They cause everyone around him, from his family to his friends to completestrangers, to confess long-held secrets and desires. The only one who doesn’tsee the horns (and still acts normally around him) is his longtime best friend,Lee (Max Minghella), who also happens to be the public defender assigned torepresent him. Advertisement The conceit of people telling him their deepest, most brutaltruths is amusing and even startling, especially coming from his parents (JamesRemar andKathleen Quinlan). But what begins as a candid exploration of basichuman instinct turns into a silly and outlandish free-for-all. This isespecially true in the case ofHeather Graham’s character, a diner waitress whohopes to ride her peripheral involvement in Merrin’s death to reality-TV fame.A likably scruffyJoe Anderson, as Ig’s jazz-musician older brother, also spinsuncomfortably out of control when given permission to indulge his drug habit. “Horns” is similarly heavy-handed in its use of Garden ofEden symbolism, from the snakes that do Ig’s bidding to the flashbacks to anubile and semi-nude Merrin dancing in the forest, bathed in soft, sensuallighting. And the diner where Graham’s character works–the scene of a pivotalmoment between Ig and Merrin—happens to be called Eve’s, complete with a neonsign of a red apple. And yet, within this overbearing and overlong tale, thereare some individual moments that are really quite lovely, from the idyllic, pastoralbeauty of the woods to the striking aerial shots of Pacific Northwestcoastline. (Frederick Elmes, who shotDavid Lynch’s “Eraserhead,” “Blue Velvet”and “Wild at Heart,” is the cinematographer.) And Radcliffe, through his sheer presence and the piercinghonesty of those big, blue eyes, makes this mixed-up material watchable. He’sscuzzy and tormented, drunk or hung-over most of the time, but his directnessand his down-to-Earth demeanor give us something to latch onto, even though theDevil made him do it.