If the most engaging and satisfying documentaries aboutmusical acts tend to come from filmmakers who are smart, passionate fans, thatrule perhaps applies doubly when the subject is obscure rather thanworld-famous. So it is with “Revenge of the Mekons,” a portrait of a long-livedEnglish punk group that is the very definition of a cult band: Director JoeAngio not only gives us a sharply crafted account of this quirkily proteanoutfit, he also conveys his feeling they’re as great as any band you care toname. Advertisement Nor is he alone in that. One very notable thing about theMekons is that, while they’re said not to sell more than 8000 copies per albumand they play in clubs rather than concert halls, they have staunch fans thatinclude such notables as critic Griel Marcus, filmmakerMary Harron, andauthorsJonathan Franzenand Luc Sante–all of whom speak to Angio’s camera astrue believers. What they marvel at is not only the band’s musical fecundityand infectious live shows, but also its spirited endurance over more than threedecades, despite recurrent personnel changes and a persistent lack of fame andfortune. In a sense, the Mekons are a great bar band of a sort that will befamiliar to aficionados of any music scene that values originality andexuberance. Their difference is they’ve managed to make the world their  stage, touring internationally and makingrecord after record though ultimately never earning enough to quit their dayjobs. While reflecting on the collective and individualpersonalities that account for this endurance, Angio also provides achronological account of the band’s long history. The tinderbox was the artdepartment of Leeds University and the spark, as it so often was in 1977, was theadvent of the Sex Pistols. Reacting to the “Anarchy in the U.K” tour, severalLeeds students with no discernible musical skills grabbed instruments and beganmaking their own punkish noise. So did some of their mates, who calledthemselves Gang of Four. When, very early on, the Mekons were offered a recorddeal, they told the producer he should instead sign their more ambitious andorganized friends, “a proper band.” The producer replied he didn’t want a proper band; he wantedthe Mekons’ noise, in which he detected an embryonic pop sense. Once theirrecorded work was played by legendary BBC deejay John Peel, the band had anational following, and it was only a short step from there to a deal withVirgin Records. But the Mekons and big-time record companies didn’t mix. Ashappened a decade later with A&M Records in America, the band was perhapstoo insistent on its own autonomy and control, while the label had no interestin continuing to fund a group that didn’t crank out instant hits. Advertisement Unlike in the U.S., much British punk was bound up with theleft-wing politics of the era, and the Mekons were no exception. While theywere fervent supporters of Rock Against Racism, the 1984 miners strike, andmany another anti-Margaret Thatcher causes, at one point they quit playingbecause the mix of music and political agitation resulted in violence. Retreating from public performance, though, had a happyoutcome. While the early Mekons took pride in their musical crudeness, laterstages of the band–as some members left and other, more proficient onesarrived–not only cultivated greater musical sophistication, but also overcamethe inherent formal limits of punk by exploring and borrowing from othermusical forms. First, under the influence of ethnomusicologist-producer JohnGill, they discovered English folk. Later, thanks to a mix tape sent them by aChicago deejay, they embraced the tradition of American country and western. In each of these cases, their admirers attest, the Mekonsdidn’t simply imitate their influences; they twisted and reinvented them,creating something new and distinctly their own. They also invariably reflectedon the political underpinnings of music like folk and country, which so oftenemerged from the struggles of working-class people. On stage, the band, which currently has eight members, isnon-stop energy and frequent hilarity. While they profess a socialist sense ofegalitarianism in their way of creating music, their most outstandingpersonalities, in more conventional show-biz terms, are singersJon LangfordandSally Timms, who both project an irrepressible sense of zany fun on top oftheir musical inventiveness. Yet all of the Mekons come across as interesting people, andsome of the film’s most intriguing sections explore their lives outside theband, as well as other artistic endeavors and collaborations that sometimesintersect with their Mekons’ work. Several members are accomplished visualartists. ViolinistSusie Honeymanand her husband run a London art gallery.Among other members who have outside musical projects, multi-instrumentalist LuEdmonds lives in Siberia and records and archives the folk music of CentralAsia. Advertisement