It simply won’t do to call filmmakerFrederick Wisemanadocumentarian. Even film critics and film lovers who normally aren’t all thatactively/avidly enthusiastic about the documentary feature as a form—and I haveto admit, I’m one of them—have to give it up for Wiseman. Like the Mayslesbrothers, like Shirley Clarke, like D.A. Pennebaker at his heights, Wiseman hascreated a body of work that proves him a great filmmaker, period. His latestpicture, “National Gallery,” is a typically lucid, graceful and unobtrusivelymulti-tiered work. Advertisement The movie opens with a considered series of shots ofpaintings that hang in the London art museum that gives the film its title.While not a small museum, the National Gallery isn’t on a scale like that ofNew York’s Metropolitan or Paris’s Louvre and hence its focus is a bitnarrower; the place displays paintings dating from the 14thCenturyto the end of the 19th. So immediately, as we perhaps recognize aHolbein or Rembrandt in the opening shots of the film, the movie draws us intoan older world. But a familiar sound begins to break the silence that wouldcreate the ideal mood for contemplating these works? What is it? It getslouder, and soon Wiseman cuts to a wider shot of one of the gallery’s hangingrooms, and there’s a fellow operating a floor polisher. This opening is a near-perfect encapsulation of Wiseman’smethod. His camerawork is as objective, or as “objective,” as it gets; he’sreally the only filmmaker of his gender who could set a documentary entirely ina strip club (his 2012 “Crazy Horse”) without running the risk of indulging a“male gaze.” Where he editorializes, or makes a point of declining toeditorialize, is in his cutting. The opening invites the viewer into the realmof the sublime, then drops the viewer into the realm of the quotidian. Thisjuxtaposition, Wiseman suggests, is a part of what makes the Gallery a nobleinstitution. Over the course of the movie, Wiseman takes us inside all ofthe activities that define this glorious space. There are shots of docentsgiving very lively and informed talks about art history and the different wayart, particularly religious art, functioned in centuries past: “The paintingwould be acting as a sacramental channel,” explains one scholar. There is ameeting in which the head of the gallery, the lanky art historian NicholasPenny, balks at the suggestion of using the façade of the gallery as a spacefor video projection of the London marathon. A colleague says that as themarathon will end in Trafalgar Square, there’s an inevitability to theGallery’s presence in the coverage of the event. Penny, though thoughtful andunderstated, has clearly had it up to his neck with commercial considerationsof a certain kind: “It’s gonna happenanyway so we should just use it then,” is not, he states forcefully, anargument that cuts much ice with him. Advertisement Also depicted: Life drawing classes, repairing damaged art,budget meetings, concern over frame shadows in the display of a triptych, andmore. About midway through the picture, we see some Greenpeace activistsrappelling down from the roof of the gallery, hanging a large protest banner.More narratively-inclined documentary directors—I’m thinking of theMaysles—would have spent some time focusing on the aftermath of the event.Wiseman shows it and moves on. It’s just something that happened, somethingthat happens, and speed bumps and such don’t really figure that much in the dayto day operation of such a place. The staff goes on, the lectures go on—Pennyhimself gives an interesting talk of Caravaggio’s “Boy Bitten By A Lizard”—andthe incredibly absorbing three-hour film ends on a grace note that doesn’t somuch affirm the permanence of art as it celebrates the nobility ofperpetuating and preserving art.