Polish journalist Ryszard Kapuściński wrote, in regards to the momentous  events taking place throughout Eastern Europe in the spring of 1989: "Germans say Zeitgeist, the spirit of the times. It  is a fascinating moment, fraught with promise, when this spirit of the  times, dozing pitifully and apathetically, like a huge wet bird on a  branch, suddenly and without a clear reason (or at any rate without a  reason allowing of an entirely rational explanation), unexpectedly takes  off in bold and joyful flight. We all hear the shush  of this flight. It stirs our imagination and gives us energy: we begin  to act." Advertisement Set in East Germany during the final decade of Communism, Christian  Schwochow's "The Tower," a German mini-series based on the best-selling  novel byUwe Tellkamp, is about the lead-up to such a moment of  collective flight. The film ends with the image of a huge flock of birds  erupting up into the sky, wheeling through the free and empty air. When  the end came for the GDR, it came with a whimper, in the form of a  radio broadcast with an official voice announcing to the populace that  there would no longer be any restrictions on border crossings. You're  free to go, basically, was the message. What started as a trickle of  refugees became a vast flood. "The Tower" is beautiful to look at,  elegantly filmed, with very good performances across the board. There  are multiple story-lines (too many, really) and a big cast of  intersecting characters (its literary source-material is evident in the  adaptation). At its best, "The Tower" shows what life felt like to those  who lived at that singular time, to those who dozed "pitifully and  apathetically" in an unchanging political system before the rules  changed, seemingly overnight. Richard Hoffman (Jan Josef Liefers) is a surgeon at a clinic in Dresden,  with burn tissue all over his back, an eternal reminder of the 1945  firebombing of his hometown when he was a child. He is married to a  nurse (Claudia Michelsen), and they have a teenage son named Christian  (Sebastian Urzendowsky). Richard has been carrying on an affair with his  secretary that has resulted in a child, now 5 years old. Hoffman goes  back and forth between the two homes, and his wife supposedly knows  nothing about the second family, although you can see her give him a  couple of sharp glances on occasion. The mistress wants Hoffman to get a  divorce. Hoffman, due to professional and personal reasons, knows that  is impossible. In the meantime, he is on autopilot with his own  duplicity. The forms of Communist rule are still in place, and yet are greeted with  eye-rolls by nearly everyone. The forms have become empty, symbols one  must kow-tow to, but are ultimately meaningless. It is a world dominated by  propaganda and censorship, where "thoughtcrimes" (to quote Orwell, as  the characters in "The Tower" often do) are punishable offenses, where  the Stasi are still a terrorizing force. Socialism, ironically, created a  strict caste system (one privileged person jokes, "No privileges.  Wasn't that the message once?"), and the Hoffman family in "The Tower"  would be considered "bourgeois"; a pampered elite group, doctors and  book-publishers and musicians. Their private lives are as chaotic as  their public lives are appropriate. In such a political system, lying is  a necessary skill. Advertisement We meet other characters in the Hoffman social circle, including Meno (Götz  Schubert), a book publisher who works with authors on removing  potentially problematic passages in their novels. He loves literature,  and he has been forced to become a censor. It is despicable work and  exacts a psychological toll on Meno (Schubert is phenomenal in the role)  especially when he is assigned to work with an author (Valery  Tscheplanowa) who refuses to edit her novel about the Red Army's rape of  German women upon invading the country. "It happened," she says. The  publisher's reply comes back: "The question is what good does it do to  write about it." She is thrown out of the Writer's Union because of her  refusal, placing her beyond the pale, in exile in her own country, all  publishing doors closed to her. Meno is haunted by her, keeps trying to  reach out, right that wrong. There are colleagues of Hoffman's at the clinic, one of whom collects  vintage cars, but who also is secretly building an airplane in his  garage to take his wife and daughter across the border. Hoffman's  mistress, played byNadja Uhl(so excellent in "The Baeder Meinhof  Complex," and excellent here too), is desperate for her lover's  protection and attention, and becomes a liability when he turns his back  on her and their daughter. These are private matters, and yet they get  the attention of the Stasi, who can use it to blackmail Hoffman. Schwochow keeps these plot-lines moving smoothly and briskly, filming it  all in a cold green-tinted palette, suggesting the deprivations and  stagnancy of the world behind the Iron Curtain. There are no primary  colors. This is a landscape underwater. The film is strongest when it  shows the direct connection between State control and private life. This  is most clearly shown in Meno's relationship with the censored author,  and in Christian's increasing trouble with authority. Christian's  schoolwork is propaganda, and school papers are graded according to  whether or not they express the proper "class attitudes." Christian  starts getting in trouble for reading non-approved books, and his  parents flip out. He was raised in an intellectual household, and yet in  public he is meant to toe the party line. His parents encourage him to  live the same duplicitous life that they do, and he stops being able to  comply. The transformation of Christian from a gawky sweet teenager to  tough-minded grim veteran of multiple authoritative organizations  (school, military, prison) is heartbreaking. Advertisement "The Tower" loses focus with some of the characters, becoming generic, a  soap opera we've seen before. Hoffman's situation with his secret  mistress and his wife could happen in any country, any time, and the  film slackens in these sequences. When the story goes back to Meno and  Chrsitian, it tightens up again, finding its underlying architecture, the  themes that are the film's engine. Yes, there is danger in Hoffman's  personal situation, but it's personal, and the danger is not as palpable  as the danger Meno faces when he tries to smuggle the author's banned  manuscript out of the country to more welcoming publishers in the West.  Meno goes from a laughing, confident man to a ruined shell of  an individual, and it drives the tragic point home about what politics have done  to talented minds like Meno's.Schwochow, who grew up in East Germany, has a wonderful subtle touch in  portraying the small details of everyday life. Meno and Christian sit in  an empty field in the middle of nowhere, watching television in the one  spot where they can pick up the signals from the TV tower in West  Germany. It's like messages arriving from a distant planet. In one  scene, Hoffman and his wife take a walk through the streets of Dresden  at night, and the power goes out (a common occurrence). Neighbors call  out to one another, joking about "the reality of socialism", and then  someone puts a record on an old crank-up victrola, scratchy music  floating out of the house. Hoffman and his wife dance slowly in the  street, holding on to one another. It's a beautiful scene, containing all  the complexity and irony and challenges of the political and personal  moment. In one of the dinner party scenes at the Hoffman house, everyone  shares about how difficult it is to praise Socialism at public events.  One woman says she "thinks of something beautiful" when she has to say  the word "Socialism" and so they go around the table, jokingly listing  movie stars they will think about the next time they have to say the  word. "     Brigitte Bardot    ." "     Brooke Shields    ." "     Alain Delon    ." "The Tower" is  full of such darkly humorous and intelligently observed moments.As the film veers into 1988, the scenes get shorter, the pace more  relentless, hopping from one person's arc to the next and then back,  Schwochow giving a palpable sense that time, after having been stopped  for almost half a century, is speeding up. The final half-hour of the  film is thrilling, individuals confronting the crack-up of the State in  their own individual ways; the groundswell of freedom and liberty  destabilizing the entire atmosphere. Characters look at one another with  an open sense of awe and fear in their faces, as if to say: "Is this  really happening? Is this real?""The Tower" is too long, and could do with some serious trimming, but in  general it is a powerful and engrossing look at the moment in history  when the tide started turning; when the people reared up out of their  apathy; when the "spirit of the times" became an irresistible flood.Advertisement