You might have heard of the 1971 doc “On Any Sunday,”produced by avid motorcycle guySteve McQueenand directed byBruce Brown,who’d made his name prior to it with groundbreaking movies about surfing,particularly 1964’s “The Endless Summer.” But did you know that “Sunday” waskind of the start of a franchise? “On Any Sunday 2” followed in 1981. In 2000,Bruce Brown’s son Dana, who has also made his own surfing movie, 2003’s “StepInto Liquid” (Dana’s also behind some “Summer” sequels, but let’s not get tooconfusing), made “On Any Sunday Revisited,” followed by a making-of on thefirst picture, “On Any Sunday: Motocross, Malcolm and More,” and now Danapresents “The Next Chapter.” Advertisement My recollection of the first “On Any Sunday” movie is lessof the movie itself than of an impression of the audience that embraced it:workaday American men who looked at biking as a form of unalienated leisure, anexhilarating escape. A measure of how the world has changed is given the viewerin this movie’s opening presentation logos: a welder works on a bike in asparkling garage, while a little girl cavorts about; the logo “Red Bull MediaHouse” manifests itself in 3D, followed by the logo of Freeride Entertainment;we’re then informed, in this garage, that what follows is “Supported BySkullcandy.” (Later in the movie, a motorcyclist executes a stunt from a ParkCity, Utah, ski jump, and vaults over another Skullcandy logo.) The machines ofescape are now lifestyle appurtenances. What follows is all handsomely shot and not without somegeneral interest—but the movie’s only really going to play for you if motorcyclesand those who ride them are subjects to which you’re somewhat sympathetic. DanaBrown himself supplies the narration, and it’s a welter of sub-MTV styleadvertisements for itself; this is a story, Brown announces, “that defiesstereotypes,” which usually means that it rearranges a particular set ofstereotypes to make it seem as if it’s defying stereotypes. I mean, don’t getme wrong, the stuff about the deaf female motorcyclist Ashley Fiolek isinteresting and somewhat touching, but to this viewer it would have been evenmore so had I not been assured about how surprised I was going to be right atthe outset. The classic rock soundtrack choices don’t exactly “defy” anythingthemselves, either. Forgive me: what I really wanted this film to explain arethe (excuse my French) a-holes you find in some urban areas who think it’sacceptable to rev their machines at ear-splitting volume at stop lights for nogood reason. What’s their story? Do they have any kind of rationale that makesany kind of sense aside from the conclusion I’ve already made about suchcharacters? Brown declines to venture into this area. In other respects,however, he delivers a clean and concise report on The Wide World OfMotorcycling in the 21stCentury, and also delivers some memorableimagery, particularly at the Bonneville Salt Flats and in Southeast Asia. Advertisement