Part of what makes this Brazilian coming-of-age drama sowinning is the way it declines to make a big deal out of what is arguably a bigdeal. “The Way He Looks” (its Portuguese title is “Hoje Eu Quero VoltarSozinho” which translates to roughly to “Today I Want To Go Back By Myself,”which makes total sense when you see the movie) is a teen coming of age story,not unusual…it’s a gay teen coming of age story, a little more unusual but notentirely unexpected…it’s a gay teen coming of age story in which the teen isblind—OK,thatis unusual and kind ofa big deal. Advertisement Only not. From its languid opening scene, in which teens Leo(Ghilherme Lobo) and Giovana (Tess Amorim) talk about how the summer’s about toend, and tentatively tease each other about experiencing their first kiss, thefirst feature written and directed byDaniel Ribeiroestablishes a tone thattells the viewer this movie isn’t going to be about big things that happen in akid’s life, but that it’s just going to be a movie about a kid’s life. We don’teven glom on to the fact that Leo is blind until the end of the scene, andRibeiro’s sense of guileless not-quite-misdirection refuses to create theimpression that a romance between Giovana and Leo would be a given underdifferent circumstances. The way circumstances become different is that Leo is teamedup on a class project with Gabriel, a handsome sighted peer who’s got anear-unquenchable curiosity about how Leo lives, to the extent that he becomeseager to learn Braille, and then quickly frustrated by its perceivedcomplexity. Rather than frame the narrative as one of painful and/or liberatingepiphanies, Ribeiro structures the movie as a relaxed line of grace notes, manyof them charming (Gabriel teaching Leo dance steps to the songs of Belle andSebastian, Leo asking his game, kindly father for tips in improving hisface-shaving) and some painful (Leo’s emerging new self creates not entirelyunpredictable troubles for him among bigoted classmates). “The Way He Looks” is a modest and good-hearted film thatleaves a clean impression: you’re glad to have spent time with the people init, for sure. But if you’re someone whose own specific circumstances aresubstantively different from those of the characters, the sense of a pleasantvisit is pretty much it. I can’t complain about that too much, and surely it’sa sign of social progress that a film has been made that’s both so kindly andso matter-of-fact, so unashamedly intune to where its characters begin and where they’re likely to be going. Advertisement