Heavily inspired by Alfred Hitchcock's influence onBrian De Palma,Nacho Vigalondo’s “Open Windows” goes from crazy to Crazy to CRAZY, butmaintains enough energy and cultural currency to keep the entertainment valuehigh. It’s one of those admittedly silly films that moves so quickly that one rarely has time toquestion its logic. Consider that a piece of advice. If you think about any ofthe dozen or so twists in “Open Windows” for even a few seconds, the entireexercise falls apart. However, there’s enough filmmaking skill and an enticingmelting pot of commentary on celebrity and hacker culture to keep it humming.It’s nonsense, but it’s glorious nonsense. Advertisement Nick Chambers (Elijah Wood) runs a website devoted to hisfavorite starlet, Jill Goddard (Sasha Grey), star of a series of sci-fi actionflicks called “Dark Sky.” Jill is appearing at a convention in Austin, whereNick has been told he has won a blogger contest to have dinner with his belovedactress. Sitting in his hotel room, watching Jill’s latest public appearanceonline, Nick gets a call from a mysterious man named Chord (Neil Maskell). Theman on the other end of the line begins to manipulate Nick, telling him thatJill has canceled their date before giving the fan access to her cell phone.They can see and hear Jill’s every action, including breaking up with her actorboyfriend and going to meet her new beau in the same hotel at which Nick isstaying. At first, it’s “Rear Window” with modern technology—the pane of glassreplaced by a smartphone, the new way to play peeping tom. The first act feelslike a clever commentary on how much celebrities “owe us,” especially in theera of the hacked celebrity photos scandal. Then Nick leaves his room. At the end of the stellar firstact, Nick starts running around the halls with his laptop, playing puppet on astring to Chord’s demands and “Open Windows” goes from thriller to insanity.Did I mention yet that the whole thing takes place on that laptop screen? Yes,it’s a series of “open windows,” displaying Nick’s webcam, Jill’s phone cam, adashboard cam, etc. It’s a clever concept that threatens to completelycollapse, especially when Vigalondo tries to stage a car chase with thisstructure, but it never quite does. Again, it’s the kind of thing that if onequestions with any sort of intensity, their eyes will roll. And yet, thanks inlarge part to incredibly tight editing by Bernat Vilaplana, I kept my disbeliefsuspended. It’s a gimmick that so openly announces and presents itself that it’shard to criticize. As De Palma often did in his crazier moments, it’s afilmmaker who knows he’s pushing the boundaries of logic but does so with justthe right amount of confidence. And “Open Windows” gets crazier and crazier,which I’ve always considered a positive thing. I have a much bigger problemwith films that pretend to be extreme than those that go off the rails. “OpenWindows” flies off the rails of logic in style. Mostly. There could have been a few more believablereactions by the people involved in this insanity. Nick so openly does whateverChord says in the first act that it’s hard to believe he’s ever even seen amovie much less runs a website devoted to them. (Didn’t he see “Grand Piano,”another Wood vehicle from this year that featured a distant tormentor and couldbe called De Palma-esque?) It’s a product of the plot that Nick openly acceptsas much as he does. As is the fact that Jill quickly follows almost every order. They’recogs in Vigalondo’s machine as much as Chord’s elaborate plan. Advertisement And yet my problems with the shallow characters of “OpenWindows” are offset by the tight pacing and, even more than that, the culturalcommentary for which Vigalondo aims as a writer. He’s playing with the era of anonymity. Itactually makes sense that Nick would be more likely to trust a voice on alaptop than it might have ten years ago, given how much we are all livingelectronically. The combination of anonymity on the internet with a completelack of privacy in celebrity culture creates a fascinating crossroads in “OpenWindows.” How many people out there don’t even want to use their real namesonline but expect to know every little detail about their favorite actress?Vigalondo stages the only kind of thriller he could in this pop culturedichotomy—a crazy one.