Why doromantic comedies make it so hard on themselves? All a good one really needs ischarismatic stars whom the audience wants to see together, and a plot with theobligatory roadblocks the romantic duo can successfully navigate withoutbreaking the spell of their chemistry. For a recipe with so few ingredients,Hollywood has made an incredibly large amount of bad dishes. The reason so manyromantic comedies fail is that they are micro-managed to the point of madness.Something that should be as light as a soufflé is almost always served with theconsistency of a brick. Advertisement "Elsa &Fred" is the latest brick soufflé thrown at an unsuspecting audience. This movieis so tone-deaf that it tries to wring charm from questionable stereotypesabout senior citizens and minorities. The latter is so completely out of placethat it gives "Elsa & Fred" an air of elitism that I assume was notintentional. The former drives the plot, and despite the presence of theextremely charming Oscar-winning actorsChristopher Plummerand ShirleyMacLaine, one cannot help but root for this couple to stay the hell away fromeach other. The pitch meeting must have been “it’s the typical bad romanticcomedy…but with OLD PEOPLE!!” For its senior-agedcouple, “Elsa & Fred” presents a grouch and a compulsive liar, the latterof whom is so incredibly unlikeable that you root for the grouch to drive her away forever. At least the grouch hasreason for his temperament: Fred (Plummer) is a recently widowed man whoseshrew stereotype of a daughter Lydia (Marcia Gay Harden—another Oscar winnercompletely wasted here) treats him as if he’s gone senile. Lydia hires anAfrican-American caregiver (Erika Alexander) for Fred. The caregiver’s '80saerobics instructor look and street vernacular get insulted by Lydia, and, inone unfortunate scene, Alexander holds up a watermelon in close-up and withoutirony. While Lydiarepresents the “those pesky young people are so ungrateful” subplot, Plummerhooks into these early scenes of resentment and bitterness, embodying them witha deeply internalized, unspoken suffering. You almost want his Garbo-like wishto be left alone to be granted, if only so he can reconcile the death of a wifehe actually hated. But this isa romance, so one must allow for the hope that someone will rouse Fred from hismisery. Enter Elsa (Shirley MacLaine), Fred’s next door neighbor. Elsa is thetype of character a bad film has to constantly remind you to like. She’s a liarwhose lies would doom all but the most masochistic relationships. She lies toFred about her marital status, her family and her health. She does this whiletrying to drag the distrustful Fred from his shell and into a world where hecan trust without fear. Advertisement Neither theflighty, spirited characteristics of the youthful MacLaine nor the mama-bearfierceness of the latter-day “Terms of Endearment” Shirley could save Elsa frombeing an annoying device. Elsa puts Fred on a multi-step “process” to help “cure”him, but every time Fred steps forward in progress, one of her lies knocks himbackwards with the force of aMike Tysonpunch. Elsa cleans things up by saying“trust me without reservations!” And Fred continues to trust her. It’s supposedto be romantic; it’s pathetic. “Elsa &Fred” gets so desperate for us to love Elsa that it not only saddles her withan illness that will eventually kill her, it also introduces her husband (JamesBrolin) as a last reel plot development. Brolin gets an absurd speech thatwould put his son Josh’s peach-cobbler ramblings in “Labor Day” to shame. Afterreiterating every single reason why Elsa is toxic, Brolin says “don’t make themistake I did in letting her get away!” You’ll want to yell “Don’t listen toBabs’s husband! Run, Fred, RUN!!” Addinginsult to injury, “Elsa & Fred” refersto “La Dolce Vita” in almost every other scene. It goes so far in itscomparison to the superior Fellini film that it recreates the most famous scenefrom “La Dolce Vita”, complete with black and white cinematography. Theintercutting of the smoking-hot, youthfulAnita Ekbergwith the much older(though still attractive) MacLaine mimicking her is the epitome of camp. And thescene of Plummer feeding a kitten yogurt with a spoon at Trevi Fountain should cause the cat-lovingInternet to burst into flames. Advertisement But Idigress.George Segal,Scott BakulaandChris Nothshow up on occasion inbarely fleshed-out roles, andWendell Pierceprovides mild amusement as anaccident-prone landlord. They’re given little to do, but provide mildlyentertaining distractions. Segal in particular reminds us how good he is atstealing a scene. Behind thecamera, directorMichael Radfordand his cinematographerMichael McDonoughmakethe most of “Elsa & Fred”’s New Orleans setting. The music by Luis Bacalov(“Il Postino”) is sweet enough to deserve a better movie. Speaking ofmusic, the sole moment of entertainment in "Elsa & Fred" occurs during theclosing credits. Over his trademark piano playing, New Orleans legend Dr. John duetsbeautifully with Dee Dee Bridgewater. The song recaps the film’s dreadful plotin its lyrics, but the charismatic interplay between the singers is so goodthat it made me want to watch the movie they were describing. These singersknow how to cook a romantic comedy soufflé. Save your money and buy the song,or better yet, go rent “La Dolce Vita.”