There’sBrandy Burreand there’s “Brandy Burre,” adistinction that becomes increasingly muddled throughout the course of thedocumentary “Actress.” Actually, even calling “Actress” a documentary doesn’t feelentirely accurate. Certainly, directorRobert Greenedocuments moments in thelife of Burre, a mother of two who gave up her acting career and moved to the scenicHudson River town of Beacon, New York, 70 miles north of Manhattan. They rangefrom mundane (the daily hassles of getting her young son and daughterdressed and out the door in the morning) to monumental shifts (thedisintegration of her longtime relationship with the children’s father,restaurateur Tim Reinke). Advertisement But complicating matters is the aesthetic Greene has chosenin following Burre as her restless spirit takes hold and inspires her tore-enter the industry. (As Burre’s next-door neighbor and friend, he’s had afront-row seat for the many changes that occurred in her life as she approached40.) He alternates between intimate, unadorned domestic glimpses (Burre drinkingred wine alone in sweats and a sloppy ponytail) and artful interludes in richcolor and exquisite slow motion (water gushing from the kitchen faucet onto asponge as she scrubs dishes). He’s toying with us constantly—and with our perception ofwhat is authentic—in ways that are both intriguing and frustrating. Burre istoo; she seems to relish trying on the role of the bored, apron-ed housewifewho’s straight out of aDouglas Sirkmelodrama, but she can also be verydirect, pragmatic and of-the-moment, as in her meticulous labeling of the kids’toy bins. With her long, dark hair, deep-set eyes and strong cheekbones, shehas an inherently dramatic presence about her. But she also talks to her kidslike they’re little people rather than babies (including dropping an F-bomb infront of her then-3-year-old girl) and finds herself saying the sort ofridiculous things all mothers do. (“Eat the cereal. The cereal will heal yourbrain,” she tells her daughter who’s complaining of a headache.) Being a performer, Burre is constantly aware that she’s oncamera and of the potential power that carries—even more so than the averageperson, perhaps. Sitting on a beanbag chair in the kids’ play room, surroundedby stacks of board games and other sundry toys, she looks around and sayswistfully: “I moved to Beacon. I’m not acting. So this is my creative outlet, Iguess.” Then she says the exact same thing a second time with a slightlydifferent inflection, as if working through her lines to see which approach feelsbest. Advertisement Greene doesn’t spell out for us who Burre is, though, for along time. In yet another method of challenging his audience, he drops us intoher life and lets us figure it all out for ourselves. About a third of the wayinto the film, he shows her talking on the phone with someone about a possiblegig, and in that call, she lays out both her resume and her game plan. Burre had a recurring role on the HBO drama “The Wire.”After about 15 episodes, she was noticeably pregnant with her son, who’s now 8,and that was the end of that. She and Tim had romantic notions of leaving theirapartment in the big city, where she’d also done some theater work, to raise afamily in a small town upstate. Her new role would be parent andhomemaker. Tim remains a stoic, peripheral figure throughout, but fleshing himout would have helped us understand Burre—and their relationship—in alarger context. As it stands now, the film can feel a bit insular. “Actress” is more effective at revealing how Burre is tornbetween motherhood and stardom, and how she refuses to be defined exclusivelyby either. Greene’s film is deceptively profound in that it’s about a specificwoman with a specific kind of life, yet it has universal resonance as areflection of the struggle so many women endure—the desire to be all thingsto all people and inevitably failing someone, the yearning to balance career andparenthood and never finding enough time to do either completely right. (Andyes, men often do this sort of juggling, as well, but women tend to be harderon themselves about how well they’re doing it.) Greene is just as coy in his film’s conclusion, ending on avague note of hope without giving too much away about its star’s fate. It’ll beinteresting, though, to see if Burre’s career does take off again because of“Actress”—if by being “real,” she’s created the ultimate highlight reel.