Here is the sad and frustrating irony of “The Theory of Everything”: it’s a biopic about one ofthe most brilliant people in the history of the planet, the renowned astrophysicist     Stephen Hawking    – a man famous for thinking in boldly innovative ways – yet hisstory is told in the safest and most conventional method imaginable.This is ironic given the director:James Marsh, an Academy Award winner for the 2008 documentary “Manon Wire,” which was so thrilling and so clever in its narrative structure thatit made you leave the theater feeling as if you’d actually witnessed PhilippePetit walking across a tightrope between the World Trade Center Towers. (Youdidn’t – the film features photographs and reenactments but no film footage ofPetit pulling off his daredevil stunt. That’s how persuasive Marsh can be.) Advertisement Here, he’s made a strongly acted,handsomely crafted film that nonetheless feels bland and unsatisfying. It falls into the trap that so many biopics do: Ithits all the key moments in the life of the author of “A Brief History of Time”and skims the surface of a complicated existence without digging deeper,without taking chances. Everyone involved does everything they should, and theresult is just sort of … fine. Of course, Hawking’s story isinspiring – the way he’s battled motor neuron disease over the past 50 yearsand defied the odds not only to survive, but thrive. And in playing Hawking,Eddie Redmaynemore than rises to the challenge of portraying the man's gradual physical deterioration but also conveying the spark of mental acuitythat has remained, and marked all of Hawking’s important work. Nothing the32-year-old actor has done previously (“Les Miserables,” “My Week WithMarilyn”) suggested he had this sort of complexity in him. It’s an impressiveperformance, so much so that it makes you wish it were in the service ofstronger material. “The Theory of Everything” comesfrom screenwriterAnthony McCarten, based on “Travelling to Infinity: My LifeWith Stephen,” the memoir by Hawking’s first wife, Jane. A general feeling oftastefulness permeates the proceedings, as if everyone wanted to be overlyrespectful toward these people, and their life, and the access they provided,at the expense of revelations that might have seemed inappropriate or startling or, heaven forbid, thought-provoking. The love and support we see fromJane Hawkingare tireless; as portrayed by a fresh-facedFelicity Jones, Janeis a woman of both grace and strength. And what she went through in taking careof him while raising their three children and trying to focus on her ownintellectual pursuits must have been exhausting, and oftendiscouraging. It must have threatened to swallow her whole. We see very littleof that here. This Jane is a saint. But the early scenes betweenRedmayne and Jones positively crackle. There’s an instant connection when theyspy each other across a crowded room at a party at Cambridge in 1963. He’sfumbling and funny, she’s pretty and perky. He’s studying cosmology, she’sstudying medieval Spanish poetry. He’s an atheist, she’s a devout follower ofthe Church of England. But they’re mutually curious and seem to bring out thebest in one another. Their preliminary days include a romantic scene involving the little-known properties of Tide laundry detergent. Advertisement Everything seems possible forthese two young and brilliant minds, until Hawking experiences a series ofincreasingly clumsy moments, followed by a serious spill on the campuscourtyard. Then comes the diagnosis at age 21 that he has motor neuron disease,or ALS, better known as Lou Gehrig’s disease. The doctor also gives him justtwo years to live. Hawking tries to withdraw but Jane won’t have it; she forcesher way into his life and insists she’s ready for whatever comes their way.They quickly marry, and eventually have three children. But as Stephen’s body weakens andthe family has to make continual adjustments to his physical status – includingthe famous computerized voice he creates when he no longer can speak, which isthe source of some of the film’s precious few laughs – his mind stays sharp. Hecontinues his pursuit of the one simple, elegant equation that will explaineverything in the universe. (And it should be noted that “The Theory ofEverything” is one of three films opening this week in which black holes figureprominently, alongside “Interstellar” and “Big Hero 6.”) Not unlike our owndearRoger Ebert, Hawking’s mind became even more expansive and powerful oncehe began losing his physical abilities. Eventually, “The Theory ofEverything” reaches a point where it toys with a challenging notion: thepossibility that Jane and Hawking each had dalliances on the side with theother’s tacit approval, once it became clear that their marriage had changedirreparably. Jane sought solace with Jonathan Hellyer Jones (Charlie Cox), thehunky, widowed choir director with big, brown puppy-dog eyes who served asHawking’s caretaker, and the family’s de facto husband and father figure. Hawkinglater had the pleasure of spending time with the beautiful and vibranttherapist Elaine (a charismaticMaxine Peake), who flirted with Stephen andeven leafed through the pages of aPenthousemagazine for his perusal. But the film glosses overthese extra-marital relationships and their resolution withlittle muss, fuss, or emotional distress. It tiptoes toward the fire and thenscurries back. It’s unfortunately an apt metaphor for the film as awhole. Advertisement