There aren’t a whole lot of dyed-in-the-wool art movies thattake North American history, let alone United States history, as their topicsand/or inspirations. Sure, there is a fair amount of Distinguished Cinema thatdoes so, as in Merchant/Ivory’s “Jefferson In Paris“ to name a more palatableexample orRoger Michell’s “Hyde Park On Hudson” to name a more indigestibleone. But a movie of grand and enigmatic dimensions, with stunning visuals andan oblique approach to narrative? The most outstanding example I can recollectat the moment isTerrence Malick’s 2005 “The New World,” a retelling of thePocahontas/John Smith affair in the form of an ecstatic meditation on natureand its corruption. Advertisement This movie is another, and possibly more unlikely example.It opens with a quote from Abraham Lincoln: “All that I am, or hope to be, I oweto my angel mother.” What follows, in austere, stately widescreenblack-and-white, are views of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington D.C.. Thencome more ecstatic, free-form, sunlight-dappled shots of a forest; agritty-voiced narrator asks, “You wanna know what kinda boy he was?” “The Better Angels” would feel under the influence of Malickeven if the viewer were completely unaware of the fact that its director, A.J.Edwards, was Malick’s editor on “To The Wonder,” and that Malickexecutive-produced this film. The low-angle shots with the sunlight shiningthrough trees as a buoyant human figure enters the frame from the right side,with Bruckner or Wagner or Dvorak music on the soundtrack; this is the sort ofthing one associates with Malick. Edwards also applies a sometimes jarring cuttingstyle, sometimes jumping frames within a single shot so that the old-timefeeling of the rustic setting and characters is imbued with ayou-are-watching-a-film apprehensive awareness. It’s all very beautiful, andcertainly evocative of a kind of Primal American Feeling. “But what’s the damn thing about?” I can hear some of youasking about now, and that’s where there’s a sticking point. As suggested bythe opening epigraph, the depiction of the Lincoln Memorial, the loadedquestion of the movie’s first spoken words, and of course by the title, there’ssomething to do with Abraham Lincoln. More than something, as it happens; it’sa story of young Lincoln’s life, not “young” as inJohn Fordyoung, but youngas in not even ten years old. The movie is set in the period in which Lincoln’sfamily moved from Kentucky to Indiana, a period that also saw a tentativebeginning to Lincoln’s schooling and ended in a tragedy that readers familiarwith their Lincoln history will know right away but the reveal of which here,in the context of this film review, would constitute—oh, the indignity of itall!—a spoiler. Or would it? To tell you the truth, “The Better Angels,” aspictorially beautiful and emotionally evocative as it is, is so bereft ofconventional narrative momentum that you have to consider it a miracle it gotmade. While its simulation of a pocket of past life is appropriately austere,and very beautiful, its story sense is such that it makes Bresson’s “FourNights Of A Dreamer” look like “The Kennel Murder Case.” The minimalistdialogue contains questions such as “Where’s your spirit? How do you know it’sthere?” and that’s in keeping with a certain inchoate Transcendentalistphilosophy the movie’s perspective seems to strive for, but seekers of ameat-and-potatoes Lincoln story are likely to find the enterprise frustrating,manly gestures ofJason Clarkeas Lincoln’s dad notwithstanding. (Brit Marlingplays Lincoln’s mother, and succeeds in making the viewer unaware of herindie-it-person status.) There’s much to admire in this genuine American artfilm, but in some respects the things that are most daring about it wind upundermining its mission. Advertisement