Everyholiday season sees a new influx of Christmas movies desperate to become thenext big seasonal perennial destined to provide laughter, tears, humanity andhealthy residuals for years to come. A majority of these films tend tofeature characters who despair that the true meaning of the season has beenlost, replaced with people more concerned with having the tallest tree, thebiggest ham, the largest party and the most gifts. "Saving Christmas"falls along these lines, but I must say that it may be the first one, atleast that I can recall, where that particular character is considered to bethe bad guy who wants to spoil things for everyone else.Advertisement The fulltitle of the film is "Kirk Cameron's Saving Christmas," and, yes, theformer teen idol turned conservative Christian evangelist/entertainer is frontand center here playing himself. Set during a lavish Christmas party beingthrown by his sister (Bridgette Ridenour), Kirk is rocked to his core when heasks about how brother-in-law Christian (Darren Doane, who also directed and co-wrote the film) is doing andSis tells him that Christian just isn't really in the Christmas mood this year.This cannot stand, and when Kirk finally finds Christian, he is sitting out in hisdriveway so as not to ruin the party with his mood. He confesses to Kirk thathe thinks that the true meaning of Christmas has been lost and that even theparty going on in his own house is a symbol of how things have gotten so out ofwhack. "That money spent—how many kids could we have fed? How many wellscould we have dug?" You mightthink that most right-thinking people, even those who wholeheartedly embracethe season, would have little reason to argue with such sentiment, especiallywhen delivered by someone who is taking pains to keep it to himself so as notto spoil the mood. Well, Kirk has something to say about that and it boils downto "You're all wrong—you drank the Kool-Aid." To his eyes, everygaudy symbol of the season that is putting Christian off has deep-seatedreligious roots, and only by venerating them in the most ostentatious mannerimaginable can one be truly close to God. Take Christmas trees and Santa Claus,for example—even though such things are never mentioned in the Bible, Kirkuses cherry-picked Biblical details, a certain degree of extrapolation and nosmall amount of smugness ("Last I checked, God made the Winter Solstice")to prove his points with such stunning finality that Christian instantlyrealizes that he has been the jerk all along for "terrorizing" hisfamily by not realizing, for example, that the giant stack of presents underthe tree can suggest the skyline of the new Jerusalem.For a good chunk of the running time, I was more flat-out baffledby "Saving Christmas" than anything else. Based on the poster andsome suggestion that I heard that it would be about the so-called "war onChristmas," I was expecting the film to be a comedy about someone tryingto regain the meaning of the holiday in the wake of monsters who would haveeveryone say "Season's Greetings" or "Happy Holidays'"instead of "Merry Christmas." This might have resulted in an awfulfilm—though perhaps no worse than most secular Christmas-themed films you or Icould mention—but at least it would have been about something, and, in the righthands, it could have actually inspired some big laughs here and there. Instead,"Saving Christmas" is little more than a screed delivered by KirkCameron scorning everyone who doesn't celebrate the season as ostentatiously ashe does, justifying his attitude with bits and pieces gleaned from the Bible, delivered in the most self-righteous manner imaginable. The result isperhaps the only Christmas movie I can think of, especially of thereligious-themed variety, that seems to flat-out endorse materialism, greed andoutright gluttony. (Towards the end, Kirk admonishes one and all to "getthe biggest ham...the richest butter.") Advertisement Ofcourse, it is all well and good for someone like myself to besmirch the filmwith secularly-oriented sass but suppose you are someone whose views alignperfectly with Cameron's—would you find "Saving Christmas" to be arewarding cinematic experience? My guess is probably not because this is a filmthat has been presented in such a cheesy manner that it is barely a step upfrom a home movie shot during last year's festivities at Casa Cameron (andconsidering the number of Camerons and Doanes in the credits, that may not bethat far from the truth). Essentially, what one is getting for theirhard-earned ticket money is roughly an hour of two guys sitting in a car in adriveway talking, very occasionally interspersed with brief storytellingasides that boast the production values of your average junior high pageant.Then, after realizing that 60 minutes does not cut it as a feature-length filmany more, Doane and Cameron stretch things out to a still-anemic 80 minuteswith such filler as two prologues, an endless final cookie following theequally endless end credits and an extended dance number set to a hip-hoprendition of "Angels We Have Heard On High" that may be the single whitestthing ever seen in a movie sinceJill Clayburghsang "Maybe I'mAmazed" in "An Unmarried Woman."(To be fair, I had hoped to ask some of the other attendees at thepublic screening I attended what they thought of it to see if they weresatisfied with the slapdash proceedings, but, alas, I was the only person there.)Doingnothing but preaching to the converted—literally and badly toboot—"Saving Christmas" is a terrible movie regardless of one'seschatological mindset. And while it may not be the worst Christmas-relatedmovie ever (a title I believe is still held by the vile "Christmas withthe Kranks"), it certainly does the genre no favors. However, if watchingshoddily filmed presentations of shoddily constructed arguments justifying aself-absorbed perspective is the kind of thing that strikes your fancy, then itmay indeed be up your alley after all. Those who are not of that mindset wouldbe better served donating the price of a ticket to a food bank or shelter, wherethe money could do some real good during the season. You will be glad that you did.