The opening scene of “Miss Meadows” sets a peculiar, andpeculiarly labored, tone.Katie Holmes, in a very proper anachronisticensemble, walks down a sidewalk in a beautifully manicured suburb. She readsfrom a poetry anthology and occasionally breaks into a tap dance. A CGIsquirrel raises an eyebrow, a CGI bluebird chirps. It’s all veryopening-scene-of-“Blue Velvet,” only forced, secondhand; the special-effectsanimals aren’t nearly as arresting/disturbing as, say, the animatronic robin atthe end of “Blue Velvet” was. Soon enough, a vulgar fellow in a pickup haranguesHolmes from the road, threatening her if she continues to refuse to accept hisoffer for a “ride,” if you get what he’s sayingand-his-other-dialogue-will-guarantee-that-you-do, and she pulls a handgun fromher purse and plugs him. Advertisement After which she grows slightly agitated, as a bit of bloodspurting from the fatal wound she has delivered to her victim has gotten on toher dress. A phone call follows; Holmes’ character, the title character of themovie, asks her mother (Jean Smart) again what’s the best organic way to removea bloodstain from a valued piece of clothing. For the first thirty-five minutes or so, “Miss Meadows”unfolded for this viewer as a kind of cinematic curio. Written and directed byKaren Leigh Hopkins(who also scripted “Stepmom” of 1998 and “Because ISaid So” from 2007), “Miss Meadows” toddles along as a kind of spirituallyinert not-quite satire. Substitute teacher Meadows advises her young charges towish for the recovery of their ill regular teacher, and a sour colleagueadvises the younger woman “Mrs. Dodd’s got the big C, don’t fill the kids withfalse hope.” Miss Meadows responds in a way that indicates she’s some kind ofmonster of optimism, and her interesting habit of taking every turn of phraseliterally (after an awkward amorous encounter, her partner asks “Is this youridea of pillow talk?” and she replies “Pillows don’t talk,” oy) puts one inmind of another unsuccessful movie,Alan Rudolph’s near-insufferable “Trixie.”“What is happening here, and why?” I asked myself, although I wasn’t quitesuffering. It was also a little unnerving to notice that Katie Holmes’performance was actually, in terms of what was being called for, was committedand conscientious in an above-and-beyond-the-call-of-duty sort of way. Tryingto work up some optimism myself, I allowed that the movie could go either way. Well, I was wrong. As Meadows enters into a tentativeromance with a local law enforcement person (James Badge Dale) who is,surprise, in charge of the curious case of a female vigilante, and Meadowsbegins a cat-and-mouse game with a creepy neighbor who’s also a recentlyreleased convict, the movie goes for something darker than the weird mess ithad previously realized, and becomes replete with dumb “you’re-just-like-me”dialogue exchanges. The earnestness brings the movie from mildly irritatingpastiche status to actively awful, and that is all she wrote. “It’s like ‘PulpFiction’ meets ‘Mary Poppins,’” a character observes of the vigilante ongoingsabout midway through the picture. In fact, the riskiest thing this movie does isto invoke two different movies that one would be entirely better off watching.