“Bad Turn Worse” joins a long line of movies about peoplewho stayed in dangerous, desperate places just a little too long (it wasoriginally called “We Gotta Get Out of This Place”). Simon andZeke Hawkins’confident thriller opens by name-checkingJim Thompson, and proceeds to tell atale that Thompson himself would have admired in its duplicitous simplicity.With its constant state of twilight lighting, cinematography that somehowconveys what feels like oppressive heat, and characters stuck in criminalquicksand, “Bad Turn Worse” actually earns that Thompson comparison at itsbest. It’s a confident, engaging film, undone by some narrative sag in themiddle but worth seeing for its opening and closing acts. Advertisement Bobby (Jeremy Allen Whiteof “Shameless”) and Sue (MackenzieDavis of “Halt and Catch Fire”) are leaving the podunk town in which they’vegrown up in Middle of Nowhere, Texas. They’re going to college, leaving behindSue’s lunk of a boyfriend B.J. (Logan Huffman). On one of their last nightstogether, B.J. decides that the trio should go out in style. He bankrolls thepartying by robbing the safe of his moronic boss Giff (Mark Pellegrino), afterfiguring out that everything, from his pin number to the combination in hisoffice, is based on a variation of his favorite number: 69. B.J. is the kind oftestosterone-heavy man-child who doesn’t think before he acts and seriouslyunderestimates the malevolence in the heart of his employer. Bobby and B.J. come in the next day to work to find Giffrepeatedly kicking the Mexican employee that he thinks robbed him. To try andstop the violence, Bobby announces that he took the money, protecting B.J. and,foolishly, thinking he can now make things right. Giff tells Bobby that inorder to repay him, he’ll have to do a job, an even bigger robbery of a crimelord named Big Red, who launders money through Giff’s place of business. Of course, this can’tpossibly end well. “Bad Turn Worse” is a story in which the dread comes fromwell-defined feelings like desperation and jealousy. B.J. lashes out at the twofriends leaving him behind in this desolate Texas landscape with nothing butthe inevitable path to his asshole employer’s life. B.J. becomes Giff becomesBig Red. It’s the circle of criminal life.Dutch Southern’s script worksbecause we can feel the emotion behind B.J.’s lashing out at the two people leaving him behind.As played by Huffman, B.J. is the kind of kid who figured out a long time ago that Bobby and Sue are smarter than him, andlikely headed to lives that will leave him behind. Therefore, his violentstupidity feels organic to the emotion of his character and not merely a plotdevice as in so many lesser indie thrillers. Huffman’s performance is balanced by those by White, Davisand Pellegrino. The young star of “Shameless” has a face that Thompson wouldhave loved—all sunken, sleepy eyes that disguise a mind that’s alwaysdeciphering what to do next. Davis is a future star, so charismatic on the AMChit and well-cast here as the girl who outgrew her small town upbringingthrough literature and intellectual exploration. She needed to get outta thisplace a long time ago. And Pellegrino is fantastic here, truly disturbing inhis gleeful propensity for violence. Advertisement “Bad Turn Worse” starts off with such energy—I wanted moredialogue-driven scenes like the opening diner bit about Thompson and whether ornot it should be called “Bacon & Egg” instead of the plural if you onlyhave one egg—that it’s bound to sag a bit when the robbery plotting kicks in.It often feels like the trio is too often discussing the intricacies of theplot when more character development would have helped. The Hawkins regain thefilm’s energy in a disturbing scene that reveals the depth of Giff’s insanityand in the final scenes of inevitable double and triple crosses. Just as inThompson’s best work, “Bad Turn Worse” takes its characters and their fatesseriously. And its accomplishment is that so do we.