There’s ascene in “Beyond the Lights” that hit me with unexpected, eye-wateringemotional force. Noni (Gugu Mbatha-Raw), a hugely popular R&B singer with amassive fan base, stands in the bathroom mirror of a remote island hotel resortwhere few know her fame. Slowly, and seemingly on a whim, she starts to removeher trademark straight purple weave, the strands falling into the sink as shefashions the curly hair underneath into a shorter, more natural style. Writer-directorGina Prince-Bythewoodshoots this with little fanfare, almost nonchalantly, yetI was overwhelmed by the scene’s quiet power. It exists on so many levels, andI responded tearfully to each of them because, by this point, “Beyond theLights” had shown me so much of this character’s internal and external strugglethat I felt I knew her. I understood that this was the first time Noni probablyhad any say in her appearance since she became famous. The simple act ofchoosing how she presented herself was a rebellious moment of true liberation,a crucial first step in her self-healing process. Advertisement A fewminutes later, “Beyond the Lights” goes for a grander, operatic moment thatserves as a more blatant, yet equally effective reiteration of Noni’s characterrebirth. But I admired and respected Prince-Bythewood’s faith in the audience’sability to pick up subtler nuances. As writer-director of “Disappearing Acts,” “TheSecret Life of Bees,” and her masterpiece, “Love and Basketball,” Prince-Bythewoodspecializes in characters who are as complex as those residing in literature.The people she writes have lives that exist separately from their romantic andsocietal entanglements. The audience tags along with each of her creations downtheir separate pathways, so when a character reacts to a certain situation, weknow why. Sometimes we can even predict what they’ll do before they act. Prince-Bythewoodis unafraid of both the quiet moment and those of melodramatic grandiosity. Thetrailers for her films do them quite a disservice, for they contain scenesthat, out of context, appear hokey, but in context bear an effectiveness thatstings and stuns. “Beyond the Lights” makes unapologetically damning statementsabout the music industry’s treatment of women, yet it never feels preachy. Itstrikes a risky, though successful balancing act between being immensely entertainingas a musical feature and making dramatic, important statements aboutdepression, self-worth and female empowerment. At thecenter of “Beyond the Lights” is Gugu Mbatha-Raw, who does her own singing andembodies Noni so fiercely that she sears the screen. This is a star-making performance;Noni is a complete 180-degree turn from the titular character she played in “Belle..“Beyond the Lights” gives her complicated song and dance numbers, scenes ofimmense strength and overpowering weakness, and a romance that plays like aless tragic “A Star is Born” or “Mahogany,” had “Mahogany” been any good. Thisis an incredibly rich role and Mbatha-Raw commands every second she’s onscreen. Advertisement Assistingher isNate Parker, who plays Kaz, her love interest and bodyguard, and MinnieDriver, who plays Noni’s driven stage mother, Macy Jean. Macy Jean is the meanest,most complex stage mother since Mama Rose in "Gypsy." Kaz is soulfuland suave, yet possesses a vulnerability that is sometimes comic and alwayssweet. Both actors give outstanding performances and have scenes where theyrise to the challenge and match Mbatha-Raw’s ferocity. Prince-Bythewood’s scriptis extremely charitable, giving Driver a knockout of a speech about herstruggles in England as “a poor White mother with a Black baby” and allowingParker an equal share of the film’s most powerful moment with Mbatha-Raw. “Beyond theLights” opens with Macy Jean taking the young Noni (a fantastic IndiaJean-Jacques) to a talent contest. Noni sings Nina Simone’s “Blackbird,” whichbecomes her unofficial theme song. “Why you wanna fly, Blackbird?” Noni sings. “Youain’t ever gonna fly.” Noni wins second place when she clearly deserves thewinning trophy, and Macy Jean not only makes a scene but she cruelly forces thebriefly proud Noni to discard the trophy in the street. Prince-Bythewood hasNoni sing “Blackbird” again later at the island resort, an adult versionmirroring her youthful one in both style and situation. Mbatha-Raw replaces theinnocence of Jean-Jacques’ version with the adult Noni’s sense of catharticrelease, and the effect is hauntingly beautiful. Before shegets to that romantic island getaway, which she shares with Kaz, Noni has to navigatea horrific amount of the sexist behavior that comes with being a singer ofhooks in rap songs and appearances at the BET and MTV awards. Noni is dressedto sell sex, and she sings about it with Rihanna-like aplomb. She’s teamed withan Eminem-like rapper whom she’s dating, and her success is at first directlytied to his. “Beyond the Lights” paints a dark picture of the music industry;at one point, on live TV,  the rapperpractically sexually assaults Noni because she’s “being disrespectful.” Kaz leapsto her aid, and his chivalry doesn’t go unrewarded. Advertisement “We’repractically babysitters,” Kaz’s police officer dad (Danny Glover) tells him.Dad wants Kaz to run for office, and we spend enough time with Parker and hissubplot to flesh out his character. This enriches his romance with Noni, aromance that Dad thinks is detrimental. It’s to Prince-Bythewood’s credit thatKaz’s first run-in with Noni is far from a Meet Cute. She’s on a balcony aboutto kill herself, and Kaz is called upon to do his job. This scene is sodelicately written that the slightest misstep would have made it collapse.Parker’s old-school leading man charm is akin toBilly Dee Williams’ in “LadySings the Blues”; coupled with Mbatha-Raw’s naked vulnerability, it helps turnsome potentially ripe melodramatic dialogue into one of the most powerfullyrendered two-hander scenes of 2014. “Beyond theLights” is an epic movie, crammed with comedy, drama, music and romance, yet itnever feels overstuffed. It makes its important statements while beingimmensely entertaining. At the Toronto Film Festival premiere I attended, thedirector stated she cut the film’s extremely hot sex scene down to obtain aPG-13 because she wanted teenage girls to experience the film’s strong femaleempowerment vibe. The film has that, and it has two Black people in a romance,but that doesn’t mean it’s just for women or African-Americans. “Beyond theLights” includes elements that speak to those groups within a much bigger scopethat appeals to all viewers. During theQ&A after the film's TIFF screening, Prince-Bythewood talked about how difficult it wasto get this film made. Given her talent, one should find this hard to believe.Hopefully, “Beyond the Lights” will draw the attention to her that “Love andBasketball” should have. That film has a permanent place in my heart, and while"Beyond the Lights" won’t replace it, there’s enough room in therefor it to nest. I haven’t been able to shake this movie, or Gugu Mbatha-Raw’sperformance, since I saw it two months ago. This is a fantastic film. Drop whatyou’re doing and go see it. Advertisement