In 1997, on the first of several visits to Iran toinvestigate its cinema, I met a smart, genial young Iranian-Canadian filmmakerand journalist namedMaziar Bahari. We kept in occasional touch thereafter andI followed his reporting on Iran in Newsweek, and was also impressed by hisfilmmaking, especially a chilling documentary called “Along Came a Spider,”about an unapologetic Iranian serial killer who preyed on prostitutes. In 2009, after the learning the disturbing news that Baharihad been arrested while covering the massive unrest that followed Iran’scontested presidential election, I was shocked to see footage of him ontelevision confessing to being a foreign spy and participating in a nefariousplot to destabilize Iran by the West. Maziar’s tense, drawn expression as wellas his absurd words made it clear that this was a coerced statement, but what,I wondered, could have brought him to this point? Advertisement The answer to that is provided in “Rosewater,” the gripping,intelligent directorial debut of TV personalityJon Stewart, who also wrote thescreenplay, based on Bahari’s post-prison memoir, “Then They Came For Me.” The connection between Bahari’s story and Stewart’s "TheDaily Show" is made plain early in “Rosewater.” While he’s covering the electionbefore being arrested, Bahari (expertly played byGael GarciaBernal) gives aninterview to one of Stewart’s colleagues in which he jokes about being a spy.Later, in prison, he will try to explain to his brutal interrogator (excellentKim Bodnia), a man henicknames Rosewater for the cologne he wears, that thiswas all a joke and "The Daily Show" is satire, not news. The concept of spy talk being offered up for laughs, though,is obviously one that Rosewater can’t grasp. And no wonder: it’s entirelyoutside the frame of reference of a pious torturer whose life is dedicated tothe defense of Iran’s theocracy and its Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei. In onesense, the two mindsets we see colliding in that interrogation room–onemedieval, one modern–form the crux not only of “Rosewater”s drama, but alsoof Iran’s ongoing struggle over its identity and place in the world. After a prologue showing Bahari’s arrest, the film’s first40 minutes detail what led to it. In London, Bahari leaves his partner Paola(Claire Foy), who’s pregnant with their first child, for what both assume willbe a brief trip to Iran to cover its elections. In Tehran, people are in afever-pitch of excitement over a contest that pits hard-line sitting presidentMahmoud Ahmadinejad against his popular reformist challenger, Mir HosseinMousavi. As Bahari sees, Mousavi has strong support among young,educated and urban Iranians, while Ahmadinejad, in addition to appealing moreto the poor and unlettered, has bolstered his support with massive governmenthand-outs. Though Mousavi has been leading in the polls, there are ominoussigns on several fronts. Supreme Leader Khamenei, who should remain neutral, hastitled toward Ahmadinejad, and in the campaign’s one debate, Ahmadinejad adoptsgutter tactics by smearing Mousavi’s wife. Advertisement On election day, Ahmadinejad’s forces announce the resultseven before the polls close: their man has won in a landslide. Mousavi’ssupporters naturally suspect a massive fraud and begin protesting immediately.Using a mix of documentary and dramatized footage, Stewart and editor JayRabinowitz (abetted by ace cinematographerBobby Bukowski) construct a rivetingchronicle of the following days, when, as the world watches via TV news andsocial media, more than a million Mousavi supporters–wearing green, a colorassociated with Islam–march in the streets claiming their votes have beenstolen. It’s an uprising that shakes the Islamic Republic’s foundations. In his book, Bahari says he later gained information that, ayear before these events, Iran’s Revolutionary Guards devised a plot in whichhe and a few others would be designated as agents of the West attempting tostage a “color revolution” in Iran. The film doesn’t indicate this. Rather, ithints that he was targeted due to filming and disseminating images ofprotestors being gunned down as they attacked the pro-government Basij militiaHQ. (This turn from peaceful to violent protest was crucial, and it’s unclearwhether it was sparked by the government’s thugs or agents provocateurs fromthe MEK, an Iraq-based Marxist cult that allegedly has worked with the Mossad.) Once he’s in Tehran’s notorious Evin prison, and under theharsh control of Rosewater, it’s obvious that Bahari is in for an ordeal. Hisinterrogator has been given marching orders: he must gain the reporter’sadmission of having worked for foreign intelligence services and incriminateothers for doing the same. Although in Bahari’s account he was beaten continuously (hisface was spared because his captors knew they wanted him on camera), Stewartdownplays the physical violence and concentrates instead on the psychologicalpressure that, even during the Shah’s time, Iranian interrogators knew was moreeffective in breaking down their victims. Advertisement In solitary confinement for days that turn into weeks andthen months, Bahari has no other human contact besides Rosewater, who tauntshim that everyone he knows outside has abandoned him. So he devises mentalgames to shore up his sanity, and has imaginary conversations with Paola aswell as his late father (Haluk Bilginer) and sister (Golshifteh Farahani), bothof whom endured torture and long prison sentences under the Shah. There are a few lighter moments along the way, as whenBahari, sensing how much of Rosewater’s cruelty owes to sexual repression,tantalizes him with made-up stories of erotic massages he’s received in NewJersey (which Rosewater envisions as sin central). Yet most of Bahari’sexperience is torturous both literally and figuratively, and eventually hedecides to give the regime’s cameras the fantasy conspiracy stories they want,in hopes that they’ll let him go home to see his child born. My one real gripe with Stewart’s script is that it doesn’tmake clear that Bahari (according to his own account), though admitting to“media espionage,” did not name names, i.e. implicate reformist leaders, fellowjournalists or others, as his captors wanted him to. This is a very importantpoint in his decision to cooperate with their televised “confession” offabricated malefactions. On the other hand, Stewart’s script offers some very smartadditions to Bahari’s account. In one scene, he provides a recollection (as BenAffleck did in the prologue of “Argo”) of the C.I.A.-backed coup that overthrewIran’s democratically elected leader in 1953–a canny reminder that Iran’ssuspicions regarding the West are notallparanoid fantasies. In another scene, he reveals that Bahari’s father wasimprisoned for being a Communist and allows Maziar to challenge hisself-righteous dad with the observation that he devoted his life to theStalinist system that produced the gulag, a model for Iran’s torture mills. In a sense, it’s when Maziar can free himself from hisfather’s heroic image that he is really free to go home, notwithstanding thehuge international outcry that helped secure his release. Unlike his father,he’s not prepared to sacrifice everything for an abstract ideal. His victorywill lie in making it back to his wife and daughter–and living to tell thetale.