The makers of both fiction and nonfiction films oftendescribe their narratives as journeys in which a character’s outward movementsalso signify an inner voyage. That’s especially true of “Monk With a Camera,”an engrossing documentary about a privileged young American who leaves fashionphotography to become a Buddhist monk in India, then returns to photography toprovide some crucial help to his monastery. The film’s directors,Guido SantiandTina Mascara,previously made “Chris and Don: A Love Story,” a moving, beautifully wroughtaccount of the long romantic relationship between the author ChristopherIsherwood and the artist Don Bachardy. Equally well-made, their latest mightalso be described as a love story, but here the relationship isn’t between twopeople but between a man and the religion he has chosen to embrace. Photographyis also important to the story, but not as important as faith. Advertisement The film’s subject, Nicholas Vreeland, grew up in the mostfortunate and cosmopolitan of circumstances. Born in Switzerland toglobe-trotting parents, he also lived in Germany and Morocco before moving tothe U.S. at age 15 and attending prep school at Groton. He knew he wanted to be a photographer from early on, and his grandmother, the legendary Vogue editorDiana Vreeland, was able to arrange for him to learn his craft under cameramasters Irving Penn and Richard Avedon. The photos we see of the young Nicky in the 1960s show anelegantly handsome young man with flowing locks, always attired in the mostfashionable and impeccably turned-out clothes. He was at this point, accordingto his half-brother, the writer Ptolemy Tompkins, “a very committed dandy.” Yet something was evidently missing. Rather any dramaticconversion, he and his acquaintances describe a gradual change, a slowrealization that while his life was full of brilliant surfaces, he hungered fordepth and meaning. These came when he began studying Tibetan Buddhism underKhyongla Rato Rinpoche, a teacher of the current Dalai Lama and founder of NewYork’s Tibet House. Over time, Buddhism replaced photography as his calling.After the Dalai Lama gave his blessing to the young man becoming a monk, Nickyleft his old life behind, moved to southern India and took up residence at themonastery of Rato, where his master had studied. In the film, he retraces hissteps as he journeyed through the villages near Rato, and it’s clear howwondrous and strange he found the environs of his new home. There followed years of dedicated study that includedlearning the Tibetan language. He only got a camera his brother had given himout of storage at the urging of the widow of Henri Cartier-Bresson, a friend.Enjoying the return to his old disciple, he recorded scenes of the monasteryand its surroundings with an artist’s eye. These became important years later, in 2008. The monasteryhaving grown from just a few inhabitants to well over a hundred, plans weredrawn up for a new compound with dormitories that could house scores of monks.But after work was begun, it became clear the financial crash meant that theproject’s foreign backers wouldn’t be able to meet their pledges. What to do?In the cause of fiscal rescue, Nicky put together a selection of his best Indiaphotos and sold prints of them in major Western cities, raising $400,000 thatallowed the building project to be completed as planned. Advertisement Once the beautifully appointed new monastery is up andrunning, the Dalai Lama announces that he wants to make Nicky its abbot. NoWesterner has ever held such a position and Nicky, who seems a genuinely humbleman, is not being humble when he protests that he’s not worthy of the post. Butthe Dalai Lama—a merry figure who seems to be laughing in every appearance inthe film—has a serious aim in making the selection. Tibetan Buddhism is not astatic thing, he avers. It is growing and changing, and part of that processinvolves its interaction with the West and believers like Nicky, whose role asabbot, he believes, will help further the cultural cross-pollination. For the past century, pop culture representations of TibetanBuddhism have often been simplistic, sentimental and overly idealized. “MonkWith a Camera” will not do much to change that. It doesn’t begin to probe orexplain the belief system that Nicky Vreeland devotes his life to, nor does itlook into the darker corners of monastic life, although longtime friend RichardGere notes the “difficulty” Nicky has had in adhering to his vow of celibacy. Yet the contrast between aesthetics and faith that Nickysometimes sees as a conflict in his life also provides a fascinating subtext tothe film. Sometimes the beauty of the world—and images of it—can be a firststep toward religious awakening and commitment. There’s a conflict between thetwo only when the mind allows there to be. So, while the film doesn’t delve into the doctrines ofTibetan Buddhism, it does provide a sense of its outward life in the images ofthe people and rituals of the monastery to which Nicky Vreeland has devoted somuch love and care. And in the portrait of the man himself, it suggests aninner odyssey as extraordinary as any journey across continents, mountainranges and time zones.