It’s hard not to make a “Twilight” joke in a review of afilm about a man in the later years of his life confronted with werewolves insuburbia, but I’ll try and avoid it.Adrián García Bogliano’s “Late Phases”tells just such a story, sketching a horror-comedy about a grizzled Vietnam vetnamed Ambrose (Nick Damici), who moves to a community that seems to run intotrouble every 30 or so days with each full moon. Bogliano can’t quite managethe tones of the film, resulting in a frustrating piece of work overall, butDamici gives his memorable protagonist enough life to hold it together moreoften that it would have otherwise. He’s great here. The movie around him, notso much. Advertisement Writing a horror film with a blind, elderly Vietnam vet asits protagonist is a risky proposition, but Damici rises to the challenge asAmbrose, a man we meet moving to a new community with his dog Shadow and thehelp of his son Will (Ethan Embry). As he’s feeling the wall of his new abode,Ambrose pulls a massive claw from the wall. Something’s not right behind thesepicket fences. The local older women initially take to Ambrose’s ruggedpersona, but he soon rubs them the wrong way with his tendency to say what’s onhis mind and brandish a loaded weapon. Ambrose doesn’t make friends easily. Andhe doesn’t seem to care. He just wants to live out his final days with his dogand his peace and quiet. Of course, that’s interrupted the first night he’s there byan attack on the kind woman living next door. Ambrose hears the fight, in whichwe see a man-sized wolf tear an old woman apart—those turned off by gore mightwant to stay away—and he’s quickly a part of the attack when Shadow getsinvolved, and ends up dead. One night in his new community, and Ambrose has tobury his only remaining companion. Naturally, he’s pissed. And he’s going toget to the bottom of the “animal attacks” in his new community. The cops don’tcare. The suburban sprawl has extended near the forest and they’re eager towrite off the concerns of the older residents as animal attacks. Ambrose knowsmore is going on, and tries to figure out who may be a creature of the nightwhen the moon turns full. Could it be the kindly Priest (Tom Noonan)? Time toget some silver bullets, build a cross, and find out. The way that society discards its elderly, represented byEmbry’s distant son and the dismissive authorities in this community, adds aninteresting subtext to Bogliano’s film. And Ambrose’s background does some ofthe same, painting this battle with the supernatural as one last trip in the country for the veteran. He may be blind, he may be old, and he may haveregrets, but this thing killed his dog and he’s going to do what's right, goddammit. Damici finds just theright energy for the role, never overplaying Ambrose's potentially scenery-chewing traits. In fact, it’s howseriously Damici plays the part that allows it to work. He never winks at thecamera as a lot of other actors would have. He takes Ambrose’splight seriously. Advertisement Sadly, I can’t quite say the same about Bogliano. He never quite convinced me that he figured what kind of film he was trying to make. A lot ofthe creature design is misguided (exaggerated and goofy more than scary), and some of the tonal jumps are jarring. Thefilm goes from character-driven drama with Ambrose and his new religiousexploration late in life to remarkably gory horror to something that playsmore like a horror-comedy with one-liners that would have worked in “BubbaHo-Tep.” I think the various tones inEric Stolze’s script proved more of achallenge than Bogliano expected. Balancing horror, comedy and drama in a waythat makes all three effective is incredibly difficult. All three typically endup getting less attention than they need.