Switzerland sure seems like a nice, socially-tolerant place.Early on in this film, which mixes archival photos and documentary interviewfootage with a dramatic reenactment of the events under consideration, one ofthe figures describes an event that was held to mark the 25thanniversary of the first publication of “The Circle,” a Swiss magazine cateringto a gay male clientele. Marveling that guests came from all over the world,including America, to celebrate this milestone, he notes that parties thrown by“The Circle” were “ the only gay mega events in the world.” This particularoccasion, as it happens, took place in 1957. Advertisement Which, if my math is correct, places the inaugural editionof “The Circle” in 1932. There’s really no equivalent in American publishing.But before you go getting ready to be too congratulatory to Switzerland—see,Harry Lime, it’s not just the cuckoo clock, butsocial justice!—directorStefan Haupt’s conscientious and engagingfilm makes clear right off the bat that, no, there was no place in Europe thatwas a gay utopia in this period and that even the most progressive-minded ofsocieties had their growing pains. The movie economically limns the socialcurrents spreading across post-war Europe by depicting one of its leadcharacters, Ernst (Matthias Hungerbühler) teaching Camus’ “The Stranger” to hisFrench class, and being gently warned off such material by a colleague. “Waituntil you’re certified” before risking such edgy material, the colleaguesuggests, and this advice feels like a leitmotif once we see how it pertains tothe rest of Ernst’s life. He’s a gay man, and he makes exploratory journeys tothe editorial offices of “The Circle” and its affiliated social events beforegetting into the life such as it is. It’s an underground existence, and Ernstand his kind don’t often encounter vicious rhetorical homophobia as a kind ofpuzzled tolerance and a general counsel of “hold on, if you behave yourselvesyou can ask to live your lives in the open a little later.” Complicatingmatters is the illegality of homosexuality in many corners of Europe, althoughthat was not the case in Switzerland. Haupt’s film moves along agreeably enough for a while, andthe intercutting between the film’s real-life subjects, now at an advanced age,and their dramatized adventures almost 60 years ago, convincingly creates arooting interest. But it’s only when the news breaks of the murder of composerRobert Obbussier, and the police’s suspicion of an inside-the-gay-communityjob, as it were (shades of the notorious “Cruising”), that the movie begins tobuild up some tension. Without getting showily indignant about it, “The Circle”demonstrates that the police conduct in the case gave individuals in the forcethe opportunity to vent their own homophobia—to use Obbussier’s and subsequentother killings as a way of pointing disapproval at the community that wasenduring the damage. What this leads to, among its principal characters, is arealization that even the tolerance they’ve experienced isn’t sufficient: theyhave the inalienable right to live as they are in the full sight of society.“We are not criminals,” Ernst says near the end of the movie, and both theknowledge and the wherewithal to make the proclamation have been depicted ashard-won indeed.