“Maybe it’s this year’s ‘Charlie Countryman,’” a friend andcolleague pondered as we exited the screening of “Reach Me.” “Countryman,” forthose of you out there fortunate enough to have not seen it, and I believe thatcovers most if not all of you—and Good Move, America!—was 2013’s MostIncredibly Bad bad movie. A Europeanized Tarantino-Inflected Slab Of HipsterTough Guy Puke, enlivened in this case by the oily presence of Shia “I May NotBe A Garbage Human Being, But I’ve Got A Heavy Investment In Making The WorldBelieve I’m One” LaBeouf. “Reach Me,” written and directed byJohn Herzfeld,is as it happens Incredibly Bad, but in a way that’s more “WTF” than“Countryman,” which was insufferable in a “let me out of here” way. Once you’vesunk into the entirely warped groove of “Reach Me” you’re almost eager toexperience the next offense against aesthetics and/or common sense it is poisedto commit. And make no mistake: this is a movie that keeps on delivering, andfor 95 solid minutes. Advertisement The movie takes its title from that of a self-help textwritten by an ostensibly reclusive author, and how this book affects the livesof a motley crew of made-in-L.A. yoyos, from a hip-hop star to a couple ofdisaffected hit men to a lone-gun cop with an overactive conscience to a youngactress whose supposed big-break opportunity turns into a sexual assault. Andmore! Because the author of “Reach Me” doesn’t want publicity, and our EvilAmerican Media believes there’s something wrong with someone who doesn’t wantpublicity, there’s the Internet Tabloid Mucky-Muck who thinks that the authorneeds to be Taken Down, and who sends a young minion who’s sold out to badjournalism when he ought to be writing the Great American Novel out to performthe task. In case you’re wondering, yes, the movie does actively truckin the explicit tropes and conventions as described; it’s relentlessly brisk inlaying out the hoary clichés. The scenario plays out as if a hyper 12-year-oldwho’s read too many hard-boiled graphic novels decided to concoct his ownversion ofPaul Haggis’ “Crash.” But wait, there’s more. What if I told youthat the Internet Tabloid Mucky-Muck was played bySylvester Stallone, and he’sgot a bunch of speeches in this movie that are full of multi-syllabic words andhe’s trying to spit them out in some form of staccato delivery? As the guy onthe Ronco commercials used to ask “Nowhowmuch would you pay?” Or that there’s a scene in which the self-help bookauthor, played by a puffy and seriously disengagedTom Berenger, breaks theYoung Minion (Kevin Connolly, who initially appears wearing a fake beard that’sreally pretty adorable) of his smoking habit by having him shout a magicsentence over and over again into the ocean at Redondo Beach? The castingreally does make the film: the likes ofTom Sizemore,Thomas Jane, DannyAiello, andKyra Sedgwickhave all of course delivered credible-or-betterperformances in their careers, but they all are capable of a certain, shall wesay, broadness, and the unmitigated ludicrousness of the material allows all ofthem to go hog wild in the hamming-it-up-department. This leaves a lessseasoned cast member like Elizabeth Henstridge sort ofstanding-at-the-sidelines probably thinking “What is HAPPENING here,” but it’sokay, she’s young, she’ll get over it. Herzfeld’s wide trashy streak was of course highly evidentfrom his very first picture, “Two Days In The Valley,” remembered these dayslargely for its Charlize Theron-Teri Hatcher catfight. “Reach Me” doesn’t offeranything as immediately memorable, although the scene featuring Stallonepainting (as in fine art) deserves to be widely circulated on YouTube. It’sreally got to be seen to be believed. I guess that can be taken as arecommendation, can it not? And that certainly wasn’t the case with “CharlieCountryman.” Advertisement