“V/H/S: Viral,” the third film after Sundance hits “V/H/S”and “V/H/S/2,” better represent the bottom of the barrel for this franchisebecause I don’t think I can take much more. The first film had its issues, forsure, but at least it conveyed a DIY, nostalgic throwback to ‘80s horror thatcould excuse some of its deeper flaws. And the second film had two segmentsthat I would call must-see, at least for horror fans. It was more polished thanthe first movie (which many purists saw as a flaw), and conveyed where thisseries could go with some talent and some effort. There was little reason toexpect such a horrendous drop in quality as there is to “Viral,” a film thatcontains some of the sloppiest, most ineffective filmmaking I’ve seen all year.Advertisement Even the wraparound segment doesn’t make any sense. Thefirst two films hinged on old VHS tapes discoveredand then “played” for the audience: short films connectedby a wraparound segment. The connective tissue this time is an obnoxious piecethat seems designed to play off the titular concept of virality in today’ssocial media world but is just loud, poorly edited and remarkably annoying. Youhave to dig to discern that “V/H/S: Viral” consists of short films with enoughviral content to actually be deadly. Imagine someone screaming at you betweenshort films and you have some idea what’s going on here. Now, the idea that these are viral short films does give thefilmmakers a bit more freedom in terms of the general restrictions of the foundfootage genre. However, that stilldidn’t excuse half of the “why would someone be filming that” choices thatfollow. To say that “V/H/S: Viral” pushes the suspension of disbelief in termsof found footage would be an understatement. The “Zombie Go-Pro” segment in “V/H/S/2”was delightfully simple—what if someone had a camera on their head during theundead apocalypse? All of the filmmakers here would have been well-advised tofollow that simple-is-better structure. The problems start with the first convoluted mess, “Dantethe Great,” a piece about a magician (Justin Wellborn) who finds a magical capeand goes power mad with it. Everything about this segment fails. The acting isunconvincing, the structure is never consistent (are they making a documentaryor is this hidden camera footage?), and the storytelling is unengaging. There’snot a single clever, interesting or memorable moment in it. The scariest thingabout it is that someone thought it was competent enough to be included in amajor film. It needed rewrites, recasting, and another round of editing. And itprobably still wouldn’t have worked. Advertisement The bafflingly low bar set by “Dante the Great” makes NachoVigalondo’s “Parallel Monsters” feel like an oasis in a horror desert. In it, amad scientist in his basement opens a door to a parallel reality, where he seesan identical version of himself. The pair agrees to hop universes for 15minutes, look around, and come back. He QUICKLY learns that the externalappearance of his doppelganger is the only thing that’s the same on the otherside of that door. This bit has a nice energy and the confidence brought to itby Vigalondo, but even it ends on a note of disappointment. In comparison tothe rest of the film, it’s a masterpiece, but even it just misses what I thinkVigalondo intended by virtue of being largely one-joke. It’s a good joke, butit’s still just one joke. And then it’s back into the pit with “Bonestorm,” an aggressivelyloud and annoying piece about skateboarders who stumble on a cult looking for asacrifice. There are only so many shots of skateboard kids slicing and dicingtheir enemies one can take before we’ve crossed the line from film to somethingthat looks more like a video game. I take that back. Most video games are morecompetently made. Like a lot of horror fans, I'm both more forgiving and more critical of the genre. I know, from experience, that those who love horror movies will often overlook flaws simply because they so badly want their genre to become more respectable and critically acclaimed. Horror fans seek out under-the-radar gems, and embrace their genre's most creative voices. However, it also feels like that blind love for the horror genre can be abused by lazy filmmaking. I get angry when it feels like a fan base is being exploited because, well, "they'll see it anyway because they liked the last one." We've seen this in countless bad horror sequels. And it's exactly what we're seeing here with "V/H/S: Viral."