Vampires will always be with us, representative as they are of  humanity's endless interest in blood-sucking creatures of the night who  stand in the tense space where fear meets desire, and two of the  dreamiest most romantic movies released this year have been vampire  movies. Jim Jarmusch's "Only Lovers Left Alive" created a nocturnal  dreamspace of love and old (really old) age, and music and survival,  with two soul mates meeting up again and again throughout the endless  abyss of time.Ana Lily Amirpour’s black-and-white debut feature "A Girl  Walks Home Alone At Night," with a vampire in a chador stalking the  denizens of an Iranian town called "Bad City," owes a lot to Jarmusch,  and in many ways the relationship seen between the two lead characters  in Amirpour's film could be seen as the younger incarnations of Adam and  Eve in "Only Lovers Left Alive." AdvertisementAlong with Jarmusch, "A Girl Walks  Home Alone At Night" is steeped in other influences: Spaghetti Westerns,  1950s juvenile delinquent movies, gearhead movies, teenage rom-coms,  the Iranian new wave. There's an early 1990s grunge-scene club kids feel  to some of it, in stark contrast to the eerie isolation of the  nighttime industrial wasteland in which the film takes place. The number  of influences here could have made "A Girl Walks Home Alone At Night"  yet another movie-mad parody or an arch exercise in style; instead, the  film launches itself into a dreamspace of its own that has a unique  power and pull. The images are suggestive and symbolic, resonant with  intersecting meanings and emotion, nothing too spelled out or  underlined. Some of the images sit there unmoving for too long, but that  very same stasis also helps create and enforce the underlying tension,  the tormented space between people even when they are standing very  close together. The film feels extremely personal. It is clear in every  frame that Amirpour has put her own dream onscreen.Filmed in the desert in California, with an excellent Iranian ex-pat cast,  "A Girl Walks Home Alone At Night" introduces us to a sprawling yet  interconnected cast of characters. They all live in Bad City, an Iranian  town filled with bad bad vibes, surrounded by pumping oil drills, seen  like galumphing prehistoric beasts, going up and down, up and down. The  opening sequence is classic Spaghetti Western (even down to the font of  the title credits), mixed with a James Dean-era aesthetic, with a kid in  a white T-shirt, blue jeans, and a 1950s pompadour walking around on  the blasted-out outskirts of town. He drives a tail-finned Ford  Thunderbird, its chrome gleaming in the bright sun, the car carrying so  many powerful associations with it, of cool-ness, of Americana, of  mobility, of status.The characters we meet are archetypes, made strange when in service to  Amirpour's unique vision. There is Arash (     Arash Marandi    ), the kid with  the vintage car who lives with his heroin-addicted father Hossein  (     Marshall Manesh    ). Arash deals drugs, too, as well as taking odd jobs as  a gardener on the isolated rich side of town, having a tense flirtation  with a rich girl who calls him into her bedroom. Dominic Rains plays  the pimp Saeed, with the word "SEX" tattooed on the front of his throat,  who supplies Hossein with drugs, steals Arash's precious car as  payment, and harasses and abuses the prostitute (Mozahn Marnò) who works  the dangerous streets for him. There is a little boy wearing a ragged  coat (Milad Eghbali) who is a witness to everything, an innocent  bystander to the corrupt and horrifying events of Bad City going on  right before his eyes.AdvertisementAnd then there is the vampire, known as Girl (     Sheila Vand    ). The shadows  are so pitch-black that she is able to stalk the streets in her full  chador practically undetected. She hides almost completely in the  liquidy black, revealing herself to her victims from across the wide  expanse of vacant lots or abandoned parks. At one point, she skateboards  down the middle of an empty dark street, her chador flowing behind her  like gigantic black bat wings. The Pimp thinks she might be a  prospective streetwalker and invites her back to his place, turning up  the techno music, laying out lines of coke on the table. She stands  motionless in the background, a shrouded, staring figure. People do  not understand what she is or who she is, until it is too late.Arash, let loose into the night, trying to get his car back from the  pimp, trying to meet up with the rich girl at a nightclub, encounters  the gliding ghostly figure in a chador a couple of times before they  connect. At one point, returning from a costume party (where he went as  Dracula), he runs into her on a lonely deserted street. When she sees  the drunken Dracula staring up at a lamp-post, mesmerized by the light  pouring out into the night, she stops. Does a double-take.Dracula? Is  that you?They have a couple of scenes together, two in particular, one in her  basement dwelling place and one out by a power plant, that rank as two  of my favorite sequences in any film this year. Both shiver and pulse  with unspoken feeling, longing, and an acute and earnest romanticism.  The walls of The Girl's dingy apartment are covered with posters from  concerts she has clearly seen in the course of her eternal life: The Bee  Gees, Madonna. She listens to records on a turntable. There is a  whirling disco ball spinning above, throwing its lights across the  grime. In a wordless moment he moves towards her as she stands at the  record player, her back to him, the music creating a wall of sound, a  wall of feeling. There is a rhapsodic catharsis in a moment like that,  the stasis of all that came before suddenlyreleasingitself in a whoosh of emotion.AdvertisementConversely, that same static feeling can sometimes justsiton the screen, the tension within the frame  dissipating, the image a beautiful picture but with no further  revelations to be had within it. Stasis can make the film sag, on  occasion, slacken and lose that taut weird otherworldliness. For the  most part, though, Amirpour helms the ship confidently and with a lot of  love and care.Similar to Jarmusch, music is extremely important to Amirpour (who has  also worked as a DJ), and the music choices in "A Girl Walks Home Alone  At Night" are intuitive and perfectly placed. There are a lot of catchy  Iranian pop songs, and a couple of sequences are built explicitly around  the song used as underscoring. Amirpour has a greatfeelfor that, merging the events onscreen to the  song choice in a way that feels inevitable, in a way that opens up the  scene.Much of the romanticism in "A Girl Walks Home Alone At Night" comes from  the visuals (     Lyle Vincent    shot the film). The cinematography is  glamorous black-and-white, crisp and specific, with light from the  lamp-posts and car headlights refracting and fuzzing across the screen  in a blurry line. The contrast between black and white is high, but  there is much spill-over, light cutting through the blackness with  difficulty, leaving fragments of itself in a trail behind. There are  moments that stand alone, images both familiar (as though seen in a  dream or a deja vu), and yet never presented before in just such a way: a  black-veiled woman standing on the other side of an empty parking lot,  barely perceptible through the gloom, surrounded by nothingness, a  figure from a nightmare.The Girl is a vampire who targets men, specifically men who are mean to  women. Because she is in a chador, one can make all kinds of political  and social connections with that storytelling device: she is an avenging  angel of dominated and scorned womankind. Amirpour lets the images do  all of the work for her, a huge strength of the film. The image of a  female vampire skateboarding down a street, her voluminous veil flying  out behind her, does the job with more poetic satisfaction and truth  than any explicit monologue about the repression of women could ever do.  At one point, she leans to whisper in the ear of the frightened urchin  child, telling him to "be a good boy." It sounds like a threat. Be a  good boy, or else … But these are undercurrents only, the subterranean  basement of the film's psyche. Essentially, "A Girl Walks Home Alone at  Night" is a film about film, a fresh and exciting re-imagining of a  well-worn oft-told genre.Advertisement