What a tortured path “The King and the Mockingbird” hastaken to reach theaters in the United States, and what a treat it is for us tobe able to experience it now. The French animated gem—which massively influenced HayaoMiyazaki in the creation of his legendary Studio Ghibli—originally wasconceived in the early 1950s, but became tangled in creative differences overwhich finished cut was the proper one. While it finally came out in Francein 1980, it has been mired ever since in rights issues since, which have preventedits release in the U.S. Advertisement Now, a digitally restored version arrives in spectacularfashion with its mixture of bold imagery and biting wit. Directed by the late, venerated animatorPaul Grimaultandwritten by poet and screenwriterJacques Prevert, “The King and theMockingbird” is based on aHans Christian Andersenstory, but its themes ofrepression and rebellion are timeless. The pompous King Charles (voiced by PascalMazzotti), who hates his subjects and is equally hated in return, rules overthe amusingly named land of Takicardia. His underlings and hangers-on runaround so frantically trying to fulfill his every wish, you can imagine thattheir hearts are pounding. This king’s cold and imposing castle stretches 296 storiesinto the sky and houses everything from a royal pedicurist to a zoo to varioustypes of prisons. The look of the placeand the costumes the characters wear are deeply, richly colorful—reminiscent of princess-era Disney classics—but this is no cheeky, self-referential fairytale turned on its head. “The King and the Mockingbird” may feature talkingbirds and dancing lions, but it’s a cutting, satirical statement about theperils of power run amok and the terror of totalitarianism. At the top of the king’s palace lies his secret apartment,which is home to some of his most beloved artwork—chiefly, his portrait of abeautiful and innocent shepherdess (Agnes Viala) with whom he’s desperately inlove. What he doesn’t know is that when he’s asleep, the shepherdess and thechimney sweep in the adjacent canvas (Renaud Marx) have been carrying on asweet and tender affair. In one of many examples of the film’s playful use of space,the two figures hold hands between their respective frames until the day theyfind the courage to leap out and explore the outside world together. Grimaultdepicts the castle as a place that’s dizzying in its boundlessness, fromseemingly eternal staircases to secret passageways that magically appear out ofnowhere. Advertisement Then an incarnation of the king in painting form sends outhis loyal (but bumbling) police force to chase after the young lovers and stopthem so that he can marry the shepherdess himself. But the couple gets helpthwarting him at every turn from the one character in the kingdom who does notworship the monarchy: the brash and trash-talking Mr. Bird (Jean Martin), abrightly-feathered raconteur. Eventually, the bird needs some help of his ownonce he becomes the captive victim of the king’s tyranny. “The King and the Mockingbird” accomplishes a great dealwordlessly, and this is especially true as the film’s tone turns bleaker andits look turns darker in oppressive, industrial ways in the third act.Surrealism remains the order of the day, but the mood of the film shifts seamlesslyfrom impish, silly adventures to grotesque and nightmarish suffering. And then the giant robot arrives. Just when you think the film couldn’t possibly get anystranger, it does, in beautiful and imaginative ways. The young couple may beheaded for their happily-ever-after, but you couldn’t possibly imagine howthey’ll get there.