The law of diminishing returns, which has afflicted so manycomedy sequels over the years, strikes again in “Horrible Bosses 2,” furtherproving that just telling the same joke with a dirtier punchline isn’t quite asfunny as hearing it for the first time. Fortunately, the energy of the cast, particularlynewcomerChris Pineand the always-endearingCharlie Day, keeps it from fallingapart completely, despite an arguably offensive, juvenile, and repetitivescript fromSean Anders&John Morris. The relative relatability of thefirst film—following average guys forced into extreme behavior by theirsociopathic bosses—has been replaced by pure slapstick, often of the “gross-outhumor” variety. Morris & Anders, who also directed, literally repeat manyof the same set-ups and punchlines from the original “Bosses,” only morecrassly this time and with more discussion of bodily fluids. And nothing isquite as cinematically desperate as someone telling you a joke you’ve alreadyheard only louder. Advertisement Straight man Nick (Jason Bateman), horndog Kurt (JasonSudeikis), and comic sidekick Dale (Charlie Day) have started their ownbusiness, named, of course, “Nick & Kurt & Dale.” After a televisionappearance goes horribly wrong, our three stooges run into trouble getting thefinancing for their sure-to-be-popular “Shower Buddy.” They turn to investorRex Hanson (Pine) and his infamous father Bert (a depressingly wasted ChristophWaltz), who agree to finance the first wave of Shower Buddies to hit themarket. Of course, it’s all a scam, and the Hansons plan to bankrupt andtakeover the business. When it looks like they have no other recourse, Nick& Kurt & Dale plot to kidnap Rex and hold him for ransom. Smallproblem: Rex is crazy. And our heroes are relatively moronic. That’s adangerous combination. It all leads to misunderstandings, violent escapades, andplot twists that allow for the over-sexed Julia (Jennifer Aniston),double-talking “Motherf**ker” Jones (Jamie Foxx), and even convicted Dave(Kevin Spacey) to return for the fun. There was a time when it was rumored that the sequel to“Horrible Bosses” would find Bateman, Sudeikis, and Day in the boss roles withthree new guys looking for revenge against them. The idea that we all becomethe boss we hate could have made for a really clever twist on the comedysequel, although that would have been a narratively risky proposition, and theproblem with “Horrible Bosses 2” is that risk was never in the equation. It’s acomedy with no surprises. Spacey’s verbal abuse, Aniston’s raunchydeclarations, Foxx’s faux bravado—we’ve literally seen it all before. Justthree years ago. And the first film worked because of the surprises it held—especiallyin the unexpected extremes of the characters played by Spacey, Aniston, andColin Farrell. Without those extremes to offset the straight guys at thecenter, this sequel gets surprisingly boring very, very quickly. Pine brings itsome nice energy, but Waltz feels completely out of place, as if the writerswere too busy with their old characters to think of something for a new one todo. The few charms of “Horrible Bosses 2” come from the energyof the central cast. Sudeikis has turned his aloof idiot routine into somethingsurprisingly charming, while Day steals the movie yet again with his remarkablylikable naïveté (although I don’t remember Dale being quitethisdumb in the first movie). AndBateman is nearly unmatched in the department of comic exasperation. Ultimately, “Horrible Bosses 2” comes across as moredepressing than humorous, in that all of these performers are undeniably moretalented than the material they’ve been given. As they go through the motionsof a distractingly similar plot, one can’t help but think about the originalplaces the story could have gone if the creators of this sequel had beenwilling to take a risk and tried something new, instead of just somethingraunchier. Then again, their studio bosses were probably too concerned aboutthe bottom line to take a chance and there’s nothing more horrible the boss ofa comedy movie can do than play it safe. Advertisement