The scene-stealing penguins from the “Madagascar” franchiseget their own movie in the appropriately titled “Penguins of Madagascar.” One would think a little of these crazy creatures would go along way. And indeed, this family-friendly animated comedy from co-directorsEric DarnellandSimon J. Smithis predicated on a single joke: the idea thatthese overconfident penguins—who fancy themselves as super spies—arecompletely bumbling and inept, yet they manage to wriggle out of every trickysituation not only to survive but thrive and save the day. Advertisement But the pacing is so zany, the jokes are so rapid-fire andthe sight gags are so inspired that it’s impossible not to get caught up in theinfectious energy of it all. The script (credited toJohn Aboud,Michael ColtonandBrandon Sawyer) finds enough avenues into that one joke to make the premiseseem, if not consistently fresh, at least enjoyable. And the formidable voicecast, featuringJohn Malkovichand the ubiquitousBenedict Cumberbatch, takesthis silly work absolutely seriously, and that’s one of the most amusing bits ofall. “Penguins of Madagascar” serves as both an origin story anda spin-off, as it follows these adorable animals on an adventure of their own.(The zoo animals from the original series, voiced byBen Stiller,Chris Rock,David SchwimmerandJada PinkettSmith, are nowhere to be found.) We begin inAntarctica, where a long line of penguins is waddling across the merciless,snowy terrain to nowhere, because (as even they acknowledge) they’re notallowed to think for themselves. This is just what they do—and what thedocumentary crews expect them to do, in a knowing jab at the over-saturation ofpenguin-related properties over the past decade or so. Once the familiar, raspy tones ofWerner Herzog’s narrationkick in, describing the penguins’ dismal state in his typically wonderful,dramatic way, we know we’re in for a whole ‘nother level of humor aimedexclusively at the adults in the audience. Yes, all animated movies are crammedwith self-referential jokes and cheeky pop-culture references, but “Penguins ofMadagascar” does this consistently well. The fact that so much of the word playis so intentionally groan-worthy—including a running bit involving celebritynames—is part of the fun. Advertisement The slick Skipper (voiced by series veteranTom McGrath) isthe foursome’s self-appointed leader. Kowalski (Chris Miller) is the brains ofthe operation and the group’s resident pessimist. Rico (Conrad Vernon), theleast developed of the four, essentially swallows things and makes gruntingnoises, but he’s useful in a pinch. Then there’s the soft and innocent Private(Christopher Knights), the de facto little brother, whom the other three haveknown from the moment he hatched. During one of their covert missions, they find themselvestaken captive by Dr. Octavius Brine (Malkovich), a mad scientist who’s actuallyan evil, shape-shifting octopus in disguise named Dave. Seems he’s beentracking the four penguins all over the globe, resentful of the fact that theykeep stealing his thunder at various zoos and aquariums. His goal is to captureas many penguins as possible from around the world and zap them with a serumthat will turn them into monstrous versions of themselves and make them seemless cuddly and appealing to the masses. (This was essentially the motivation of the dastardly ElMacho in “Despicable Me 2,” by the way. He kidnapped nearly all of Gru’sminions, shot them up with high-tech jelly and turned them into an army of evil,purple minions to help him carry out his nefarious plan. I have a 5-year-old;I’ve seen this movie a lot.) Skipper and his pals try to thwart Dave’s plan, but also onhis tail (or his tentacles) is a group of legitimate animal super spies led bya wolf whose name is Classified, in a bit of who’s-on-first humor. Cumberbatchvoices the character with total authority and gravitas, and to think that hehas this and the voice of the fearsome dragon Smaug from the epic “Hobbit”franchise in him—as well as the brilliant mathematician Alan Turing in thisweek’s “The Imitation Game”—speaks to his limitless versatility. Basically from here, it’s spies vs. spies in a series ofwild action sequences, and the antics wear a bit thin after a while. “Penguinsof Madagascar” seems just about right at 90 minutes, and couldn’t have run muchlonger. Still, if you’re running around doing your holiday shopping and lookingfor a brief respite, you’ll be glad you went for a ride with these flightlessbirds.