For “The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness,” director MamiSunada was allowed remarkable access to one of the most important artisticenterprises of the last half-century, Studio Ghibli, at a unique point inits existence. News about the shuttering of the company that has given theworld masterpieces like “My Neighbor Totoro” and “Spirited Away” reverberatedthroughout the animation community and beyond earlier this year. And there’s asense in “Kingdom" that this is an elegy of sorts, a goodbye to an era ofremarkable creative resonance. The cinematic visions that emerged from thedrawing tables of this relatively nondescript building have influencedcountless creative voices, and will continue to do so for the rest of time. Tosay I’m a Ghibli fan would be something of an understatement (my “Totoro”iPhone case had to be internationally ordered, for the record), and so “Kingdom”naturally speaks to my interests. If you’re not enraptured with the work ofHayao Miyazaki,Isao Takahataand the rest of the artists at Ghibli, it may notbe precisely what you’re looking for, but Sanada captures something poeticabout art and creativity that could speak to anyone, animation fan orotherwise. Advertisement Having said that, it’s very helpful to have seen “The WindRises” and “The Tale of the Princess Kaguya,” the two most recent Ghibli films,and the two pieces being worked on for the year Sanada had access to thestudio. Just the very idea that two such massive productions from two mastersof the form were being produced simultaneously seems to cause ulcers in severalproducers involved. And yet Miyazaki’s process has been the same for decades.He works from 11am-9pm every day, on the dot. He doesn’t write scripts, hewrites storyboards, and his assistants begin production from those drawingsbefore he’s done, unsure of how the film will end. Miyazaki is very open withhis process, opening his studio and home to Sanada, and philosophizing on artand humanity in ways that feel like someone coming to terms with a life’s work.He speaks candidly about how he makes films for others, most notably the peopleat Ghibli, and yet there’s something so deeply personal about “The Wind Rises”that it’s the first film that makes him cry after its premiere screening. Heshares the “beautiful but cursed dreams” of its protagonist. “The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness” contains surprisinglylittle actual film footage. There are more shots of Miyazaki's cat than his films. We see bits and pieces of “Wind Rises” as it’sbeing assembled, but this is more a “year in the life” documentary than ahistory of the studio, although there are bits and pieces of the latter. Sanada’sfilm is at its best when the director conveys the realization that this is astudio and creative voice at the very least in a transitional period andarguably in its twilight phase. The music, the tone, the subject matter of thetwo films, Miyazaki’s candid self-reflection—it all combines to paint aportrait of something beautiful that’s coming to an end. At nearly two hours,Sanada hits a few of these beats a bit too many times, even for this fan, andthe film bizarrely feels like it’s ending around the 90-minute mark, completewith a production-finishing montage, only to go on for another half-hour. It’sa fascinating look into a creative process that has been essential to thehistory of animation, but it could have been tighter as a documentary. There’s an amazing passage in which Miyazaki receives a letterfrom a man who received assistance from Miyazaki’s father after the war. Theproduction of “The Wind Rises” inspired the man to write Miyazaki, and thedirector points out how the event “Probably shaped the way this man looked atthe world.” Reality influenced art which then reflected back on reality. Thetruth is that Miyazaki and the people at Studio Ghibli have been shaping theway we look at the world for years, and will continue to do so long after theKingdom has closed. Advertisement