David AlvaradoandJason Sussberg’s documentary “TheImmortalists” concerns the scientific effort to defeat the aging process, yetbecause it focuses so closely on the personalities of two scientists inparticular, it is bound to be greeted differently by different viewers: thosehoping for a cohesive, current overview of the campaign to extend human life(the subject of a recent cover story in The Atlantic) may be disappointed,while anyone looking for an entertaining double portrait of eggheadeccentricity will find their interest fully rewarded. Advertisement Those two main subjects are a well-matched pair. Aubrey deGrey, a hirsute, donnish Englishman, sports a luxuriant russet beard that makeshim look like a refugee from the Pre-Raphaelites or a Russian monastery. BillAndrews by contrast is quintessentially American in his salt-and-pepperruggedness and unquenchable optimism. Both men are tall and fit with a buoyantathleticism that somehow seems tied to their quest of limitless life: When wefirst see de Grey, he’s poling a boat through the streams of Cambridge, wherehe lives; for his part, Andrews is an avid-unto-obsessive marathoner, runningat least one hundred-mile race per month. The film follows the men over several years, so we get tosee how their work is reflected in their evolving lives. At first, they are ondifferent continents and express contrasting ideas about their own motivations.De Grey says his research is purely for the benefit of humanity, although quicksuccess would obviously help his mother–who says she’s 71 until he correctsher by saying that she’s in fact 81. Andrews, on other hand, admits that he’dlike to win his battles in time to help to help his father, who’s 84 but stillshares his son’s love of running. The two scientists don’t cross paths till late in thenarrative, when de Grey relocates to Silicon Valley, but the film makes clearfrom the first that they are very similar in bringing an almost religiousfervor and conviction to their campaign to defeat aging. They both think it’spossible to extend human life indefinitely and they’re determined to make thenecessary scientific advances themselves. At the same time, their ideas about what the essentialproblems are and how to combat them are entirely at odds with each other. Thefilm describes their different views in ways that the non-scientific-minded mayor may not find comprehensible. The more general point, though, is that there’sno scientific consensus on these matters at present, so enterprisingresearchers like these two are operating as solo adventurers. Advertisement Fittingly, each has a complex romantic life to match hisprofessional eccentricity. Andrews confesses that as a young man he broke offseveral engagements fearing that marriage would interfere with his work. Now inhis 50s and never married, he’s engaged to Molly, a chipper blonde who shareshis love of marathon running. After he completes a near-suicidal run in the Himalayasthat nearly killed him two years earlier, they marry in a mountaintop Buddhisttemple. When we first see de Grey, he’s been married for many yearsto Adelaide, a Cambridge geneticist nearly two decades his senior. The two seemideally matched both intellectually and romantically; the film even shows themsharing nude massages in a field. Yet when he decides to move to the U.S. andshe’s professionally unable leave Cambridge, a rupture occurs. Later, she saysthat while she still loves him, she knows he has two younger girlfriends inCalifornia, where he muses that extending human life may make “polyamorous”relationships more necessary. Such personal details account for much of the fascination of“The Immortalists.” Yet the film could use some more incisive examination ofits subjects’ ideas. Most scientists working in their field simply foreseeextending the human lifespan by a few or several years. De Grey and Andrews areoutliers in asserting that there need be no limit to how long a person might live,given the discovery of ways to halt or reverse the aging mechanism. But what would it mean for human society if people couldlive for a thousand years…or forever? De Grey and Andrews must have thought ofsuch questions, and indeed must have been asked about them a thousand times.The film ultimately achieves a kind of poignancy in suggesting, after some oftheir intimates have died, that these men are valiantly fighting an enemy theycan’t conquer. Yet its account of their quest would have been richer and moreilluminating if it delved more into the social, ethical and philosophicalramifications of their work. It is nonetheless a very well-mounted film, with outstandingcontributions in Alvarado’s cinematography and Eric Andrew Kuhn’s subtlyexpressive score.