I went into “The Babadook” under a kind of misapprehension.I’d heard a bit about the movie—it would have been difficult, as a working filmreviewer to not have—but not orally, so I thought that the title was pronouncedwith a long “o” or even a sort of “u,” so it rhymed with “Luke,” or, morepertinently, an obscure Italian-American slang word thatRobert De Nirouses in“Raging Bull,” that word being “mamaluke.” As in, “I look like a mamaluke.” “AWHAT?” “Like a mamaluke. Like the mamaluke of the year.” Under thismisapprehension, I actually underestimated this horror movie, the debut featurewritten and directed by Australian filmmakerJennifer Kent. Advertisement I was wrong. Both about the pronunciation of the titlecharacter—it’s a short double-“o,” as in “look” or “book”—and what it impliedfor the movie, which as it turned out, is, in my opinion, the finest and mostgenuinely provocative horror movie to emerge in this still very-new century.Both a relentless psychological thriller with heavy primal stuff on its mindand a full-throttle slam-bang scare-fest, it delivers raw sensation withoutinsulting the intelligence the way the more sensationalist but also essentiallytrite pictures in the New Horror Paradigm along the lines of “Insidious” tendto do. This is strictly my opinion, I am quick to point out. So impressed was I by“The Babadook” that upon seeing it I tweeted that I thought it might be thefirst capital-G “Great” horror movie of the 21stCentury and wasalmost immediately beset upon by a couple of guys who thought I was out of mymind. “The Babadook” was both a snoozefest and ridiculous, and superior filmsincluded “Sinister” and “The Conjuring.” Now I’m not sure that “ridiculous” isa word that ought to be applied to horror movies, especially if you’re implyingby comparison that stuff like “Sinister” and “The Conjuring” is NOT ridiculous.It’s all ridiculous in a sense. What makes a difference is how purposeful theridiculousness is made to seem.In “The Babadook,” a sense of urgencyestablishes itself immediately in a nightmare scene in whichEssie Davis’Amelia is being rushed to the hospital…and this really is a nightmare scene.The urgency is over, the child she was being rushed to the hospital to deliveris now in early elementary school. And the father is dead, killed in anaccident during that trip to the hospital. And the child, a little boy, is a pip.Samuel (the cherub-facedNoah Wiseman, giving one of the most amazing andintense child-actor performances I’ve ever seen) spends a lot of time playinggames and concocting crude weapons with which to protect himself and his mumfrom imaginary enemies, and he’s at work on this project day and night, loudly.When his vigilance isn’t literally wreaking havoc on the small house withinwhich he and Amelia live in near-isolation, Sam is a needy clinger who won’tlet his mum sleep. He’s a terror at school and he very nearly kills anotherchild, the daughter of Amelia’s sister Claire, whose patience with theincreasingly frazzled Amelia is wearing thin. The situation’s a nasty mess, andKent really makes the viewer resent little Sam about it, particularly after littleSam discovers a rather malevolent children’s book that warns of the evilhousehold influence of a nasty man called, yes, The Babadook. Kent’s directorial strategy is a marvel. In the first halfof the film, she tells the story through the increasingly bleary eyes ofAmelia. Once the ostensibly nonexistent Babadook starts making himself known—most devastatingly in a car rearview mirror incident that provides one of thefilm’s most jarring and viscerally potent sequences—it becomes Amelia’s turn toplay the part of the monster. The heretofore intractable Sam begins to come offas vulnerable as, duh, he actually IS, while Amelia’s animus toward her sontakes on what you might call supernatural proportions. Advertisement The hiding-in-the-dark entity called The Babadook is themost slippery kind of menace in contemporary horror: a metaphor for both theterrors of childhood and the terrors of parenting—particularly single parentingunder a very vexed circumstance—that’s also, within the created world of thefilm, a very real thing. This movie has been compared toStanley Kubrick’s “TheShining,” which has very similar themes and also played similar games withdeliberately blurring the lines between the contents of the troubledcharacters’ psyches and the possibly supernatural evils out to do them harm. Inthe end, “The Babadook” puts its chips on ending up as a more conventionalhorror movie—whatever the Babadook is, it’s something, finally—and that’s allto the good as far as I’m concerned. I like horror movies—they made me likemovies in the first place, in fact—so seeing one as emotionally engaged,consistently gripping, beautifully constructed and paced, and really hellascary (without mind-numbing sadism but WITH a fair amount of grisly imagery)feels like a blessing.