“There’s nothing the matter with you. You’re alive, and sick andliving in New York -- like 8 million other people.” These words of encouragement may not resemble a new daya-dawning, but by the time they arrive near the end of “Outrageous!” they carrya certain poignant significance. They're spoken to a frightened schizophrenicgirl by her best friend in the world, who is a drag queen. And then, in whatwouldn't have passed for a happy ending in Hollywood's golden age but will haveto do these days, they hit the dance floor together in a gay disco. Advertisement Almostany description of “Outrageous!” makes it sound like a sensational exploitationfilm but that's exactly what it isn't. It's a bittersweet, endearing, sometimesfunny little slice of life, and when you describe it as the story of afriendship between a transvestite and a schizophrenic, you have to add thatthey're loyal and human and deserve one another. Themovie was shot last winter in Toronto and New York and debuted in themarketplace of the Cannes Film Festival last May. The title and the subjectmatter made it sound like this year's contender for theAndy Warholprize, butthe movie itself was something else again: a low-budget, rough-edged effort,yes, but with warmth and sincerity and two very engaging performances. Theperformances were byCraig Russell, who has been a professional femaleimpersonator for five years, andHollis McLaren, a Canadian actress who was inno fewer than four other Canadian films this year at Cannes. Because they bringconvincing dimensions to their characters, the movie isn't the soap opera itcould have been. It knows something about human nature. Russellplays a Toronto hairdresser who's trying to get up the courage to supporthimself as a female impersonator. Miss McLaren, who's haunted by night mares ofa “bonecrusher” out to destroy her, leaves a mental hospital and comes to livewith him. They both have less than triumphant sex lives (she finds taxi driversirresistible; his drag orientation turns off mainstream gays). But they carefor one another. Thisbasic relationship is played as counterpoint to the gradual success ofRussell's nightclub act, and problems during Miss McLaren’s pregnancy (theresponsibility of either a Checker driver or an independent; we're not sure).And all of this material would come across as relentlessly maudlin melodrama ifMcLaren and Russell weren't engaging performers and if the movie didn't have aresilient sense of humor. Thehumor comes mostly from Russell, who throws in one-liners, asides and exitlines and is funny (and sometimes uncannily accurate) onstage in his impressionsof such as Streisand, Channing, Garland, Dietrich and Peggy Lee. There areengaging walk-ons, too -- like the gay taxi driver who turns out to be a formerWilliam Morris agent and takes over Russell's career; and Russell's friend, whodetermines to attend a drag ball dressed as the stewardess played by KarenBlack in “Airport ‘75” (“I mean, how many Zsa Zsa Gabors can you have in aroom?”). Advertisement Themovie makes its points too heavily toward the end, where the girl's miscarriageis intercut with Russell's successful New York debut. But even here theperformances rescue the movie; Russell's act is intrinsically entertainingenough, and Miss McLaren's despair is convincing enough, that we forgive thelack of a subtler touch in the writing and direction. I suppose the nicestthing about “Outrageous!,” finally, is that it isn't so outrageous after all. ** * *A selection of Craig Russell clips from "Outrageous!"can be found on YouTube:http://www.youtube.com/profile_videos?user=CraigRussell4Ever