Like classic military comedies from “Catch-22” to “M*A*S*H,”Talya Lavie’s “Zero Motivation” offers its own appealing blend of irreverenceand absurdism. But what makes the film so original is not that distinction, orthe greater one that the soldiers observed here are female and Israeli. Thefilm’s real difference, rather, lies in a kind of cinematic intelligence thatunveils itself very gradually and subtly. This reviewer, for example, thought he had the film sized uproughly a third of the way through. Another third later, he realized hisearlier approximate certainty had come far too soon. And by the end, he wasimpressed in a way that he hadn’t imagined he would be even a few minutesbefore. Advertisement These shifting perspectives are worth noting as a way ofdescribing how “Zero Motivation,” unlike most films currently, doesn’t try tocreate a single impression early on that will simply be extended and amplified asthe narrative continues. Rather, it deepens and changes it goes along, endingup far richer and more resonant than many viewers will expect initially. This, in part, emerges from the narrative being structuredas three consecutive stories about the same set of characters: soldiers whowork in boring low-level jobs as paper-pushers at a military base in southernIsrael. The first tale centers on the fraught friendship of two of these women.As it opens, they are returning to the base and nervy, sharp-edged Zohar (DanaIvgy) is doing what she can to help and placate petulant, recessive Daffi(Nelly Tagar), everything from saving her a seat on the bus to carrying herpack when they have to leave their ride and walk. Zohar, we quickly see, is happy as long as she’s with Daffiand they are engaged in some of the silly pastimes that make up their normalroutine, like singing pop songs and playing video games on their workcomputers. For her part, Daffi isn’t made happy by any of this. She hates thebase, is merely killing time with Zohar, and has been aggressively petitioningher superiors for a transfer to Tel Aviv. It’s a mark of the film’s complexity that, even whiledescribing the evolving emotional snarls between these two women, it alsoprovides detailed portraits of several other characters. One, Rama (ShaniKlein), the office commander, is a typical autocrat in some ways, yet is alsoambitious to an extent that makes her both pliant and uncertain. Then there’sthe latest woman to appear on base, whom Daffi’s convinced is the replacementthat will allow her leave for Tel Aviv until a dark and bizarre incident provesotherwise. Through much of the story, underlying sexual tensions seemto explain certain aspects of how the characters behave. Yet things are neverexactly as they first appear. When the tale’s second part begins, for example,the sense that Zohar may be motivated by a lesbian attraction to Daffi isdisplaced by another twist: after being chided by her fellows for being thelone virgin in their group, she sets out to snare a man. “There’s a war on,” a character says at one point in thefilm. “Soldiers are dying.” We never do learn which war exactly, or who theenemy is. But rather than damning “Zero Motivation” for lacking political andhistorical specificity, this ambiguity underlines its emotional and thematicacuity. In essence, there’s always a war on, and not just in Israel or theMiddle East. Put any group of untethered individuals, male or female, togetherin a closed, pressured situation and a war will soon erupt. Here, the weaponsare words, paper and staple guns, but the conflicts are no less serious–andsometimes violent–for that. Advertisement By the time the narrative reaches its final section, it’sclear that there will be no easy outs or simple solutions for any of the maincharacters. Some will climb the career ladder, others will end up in the brig;but the war will continue, at varying degrees of intensity, as long as they arein the military–and perhaps well after. At the same time, though, thesesoldiers are not simply rats in a maze. They are complicated people who growand learn, although their changes sometimes entail torturous challenges.