"Every other time I've been to a lesbian hooker, they've accepted  Talbot's gift certificates," a baffled elderly client says to the  lesbian hooker who just serviced her. The lesbian hooker is new to the  job, a sloppy dresser, asthmatic and naive, but she knows that she  doesn't want a Talbot's card, she needs the cash. The ongoing joke that  lesbian hookers in New York City congregate outside of Talbot's because  that's where the real action is is the funniest part of "The Foxy  Merkins," a lesbian spin on the male-hustler genre, directed byMadeleine Olnek. It's a one-joke movie, written by Olnek withLisa HaasandJackie Monahan(who both star), and while much of it is quite funny,  the film ends up feeling like a good comedy sketch stretched out  unnecessarily to a feature-length. Advertisement Margaret (Lisa Haas) is new to being a hooker. She dresses "like a  homeless women's studies major," observes Jo (Jackie Monahan), another  hooker who has taken Margaret under her wing. Jo wears cute outfits and  huge sunglasses, grew up rich, and is far more successful at working the  streets than Margaret. In one funny scene, the two women walk down the  sidewalk, Jo drawling in a bored monotone at everybody they pass, "See  that girl in the peach outfit? Slept with her … Girl in the boots over  there? Slept with her…." The two of them sleep in the Port Authority bus  station, stashing their clothes under the sink and a bottle of tequila  behind one of the toilets. By day, they stalk the streets and hang  around outside of Talbot's with all the other hookers, ogling the uptown  matrons on their way in and out of the store. Sometimes they score.Margaret's efforts to sell her body for cash are bumbling and awkward,  and sometimes painfully funny. Jo drawls bored advice at her protege:  "You are the kind of lesbian that the client will be mortified to be  seen with, so they'll pay extra." Margaret nods, saying, "Uh-huh." There  is a long unfunny sequence where Margaret keeps getting busted at the  same hotel by two cops who barge in with guns. It's meant to be  slapstick, it's meant to be Keystone Cops, but it's strangely airless,  lacking the manic propulsion that could push the events into true  screwball.There are a lot of callbacks to male hustler movies: Jo has an "I'm  walkin' here!" moment reminiscent of Dustin Hoffman's famous scene in "MidnightCowboy." There's a quiet heartfelt scene over a campfire, where  Margaret expresses her romantic feelings for Jo, a nod to a similar  sequence in "     My Own Private Idaho    ." But "The Foxy Merkins" suffers by  comparison. When the film steps into more sentimental waters (Margaret  searching for her mother, the pain of abandonment), it's a total  stretch. The film can't take it. It's too slight. Both actresses are  game, and watching their scenes together is a delight (Monahan is a  deadpan queen), but the story rests on some pretty flimsy architecture.AdvertisementEarly in the film, there are "interviews" with various lesbian hookers,  who talk directly to the camera about what got them into it, what it was  like for them. They share funny or weird anecdotes. These hookers are  all played by actresses, but the documentary-energy is genuine, and  these scenes have real interest, real humor. The fake-interview device  is dropped early on (although it does return at the very end), and its  disappearance is a mistake. The fake interviews focus "The Foxy  Merkins," interrupting the adventures of Jo and Margaret, reminding us  that none of it should be taken too seriously.Olnek directed 2011's hilariously weird "Codependent Lesbian Space Alien  Seeks Same" (also with Haas and Monahan in the cast). That film was a  wacky black-and-white comedy depicting a yearning lesbian who is  contacted by an equally yearning, totally bald lesbian  alien. Confident in its tone and style from the first frame, calling to  mind the films of Ed Wood, "Codependent Lesbian Space Alien Seeks Same"  was fresh, funny, and truly bizarre. "The Foxy Merkins" keeps the comedy  ball rolling along, thanks in part to the two talented actresses in the  lead roles, but there's just not much else there.