Why does it feel nearly revelatory to see a film that treatsfemale friendship with respect? Not as a device to get one of the women hitchedto the right guy and not as an undeveloped subplot to serve as comic reliefuntil said protagonist walks down the aisle. This is at the heart of why “Bridesmaids”was such a smash success—Kristen Wiigconveyed something truthful about femalecharacters who felt like friends and not plot devices or the broad caricatures of so many Hollywood comedies. And yet we’ve seen fewfilms like it since. And so the moments of believability in the surprisinglyentertaining “Life Partners” have greater resonance. Yes, the plot machinationspuncture a bit of that believability balloon, but the honesty in this film’score love triangle is something that other filmmakers, especially thoseinterested in telling stories about women, would be wise to copy. Advertisement Much of that truthfulness can be traced back to casting.Gillian Jacobswas always entertaining on NBC’s “Community,” but the hit showwas often stolen from her by more vibrant personalities likeDonald GloverandDanny Pudi. Here, she proves, without question, that she can carry a film. She’sgrounded and likable as Paige, best friend to Sasha (Leighton Meester). Thesetwo have a nearly co-dependent degree of friendship, talking every day on thephone, getting together to mock “America’s Next Top Model,” and helping eachother through failed relationships. The core of “Life Partners”—the friendshipbetween Jacobs and Meester—is surprisingly genuine, and it goes a long way tothe success of the overall film. Too many movies about friendship force actorsor actresses who seem like they’d never even talk over the Kraft Services tablemuch less actually hang out to portray friends, and so the core of the filmrings hollow. The core here is solid. And so we feel it when the friendship between Sasha andPaige is tested by the natural progression of life. Sasha has had nothing but bad luck in love, bouncingfrom relationship to relationship, and commiserating over her failures with herother lesbian friends like Jen (Gabourey Sidibe) and Jenn (Beth Dover). Paigehas seen her share of losers as well, and Tim (Adam Brody, who happens to bemarried to Meester in real life) looks like just another bad beau at first. Hequotes “The Big Lebowski” far too often to be a viable romantic candidate. And yethe becomes one. He seems genuinely, sweetly interested in Paige, and the subtle way thisrelationship unfolds is one of the strengths of “Life Partners.” It doesn’thappen overnight, as in so many Hollywood rom-coms. When these two fall in love, they do so gradually and believably.Before she knows it, Sasha has to makeroom on the couch for Tim during their weekly “Top Model” snark-fests. And thenPaige is missing them altogether. Paige pushes herself into uninteresting dates(with scene stealers likeKate McKinnonandAbby Elliott), as so often happenswhen our friends find partners; we seek out our own with more fervor. More thananything, “Life Partners” captures how romance alters friendship. We have toadjust to our friend’s significant others, and realize that we may not be themost important person in their life any more, even if they are still the mostimportant person in ours. The first act feels a bit forced in some of itscharacter set-ups, but once “Life Partners” settles into a loose,character-based groove, it really works (at least until it's forced out of thatagain with some awkward plot turns in the final half-hour). It’s a sadcommentary on how rarely we see female friendship that feels truthful in cinemathat this comes as such a pleasant surprise. Advertisement