If you’re anything like me, every now and then you’ll say toyourself, “I wonder how the cast of the fizzled 2011 comedy ‘A Good OldFashioned Orgy’ is making out these days.” And then an answer will come: LakeBell’s almost-breakthrough cracking-the-glass-ceiling-of-voiceover-work epic“In A World,” pretty creditable;Tyler Labine’s enactment of a Larry The CableGuy version ofSeth Rogen’s career, less commendable. And so on. And now wordcomes fromLeslie Bibb, the lissome, willowy member of the “Orgy” femaleensemble, also remembered as the butt of one or two not-at-all-misogynist jokesin the first two “Iron Man” movies, with “Take Care,” a motion picture in whichshe’s required to lie on her back for most of the running time. Advertisement Don’t get too excited, fellas. Bibb’s character, Frannie,has been hit by a car, and much of her right side is braced up, and she must bepractically supine for practically half a year. Resisting the entreaties of herbossy, old-school yuppie older sister—so old school she’s retreated withhusband and family to the suburbs—Frannie insists on holing up in herfifth-floor apartment, right next door to a hunky guy who likes to work out toloud music, oh my. Said guy is played byMichael Stahl-David, who seems to bewanting to channelBradley Cooperbut keeps turning overCharlie Dayinstead.Such oddities of performance are features that make “Take Care” —written anddirected by Liz Trucillo, co-author of the BOOK “He’s Just Not That Into You,”oh dear—eccentrically watchable but not exactly good. Anyway.One might thinkthat Frannie and Cooper-Day are destined for the romance this movie’s setup requires,but one would be wrong. In the midst of Frannie’s whingeing andnear-sociopathic passive aggressive demands, and Cooper-Day’s ContemporaryUrban Philosophy Musings—“When somebody asks me to do them a favor it’s likethey’re squeezing the air out of my lungs,” OK buddy—we learn of a backstory.Frannie has an ex: Devon, or as he’s referred to early on “Devil,” who’s justmade some kind of massive business deal (although the figure bandied about, $6million, seems a little low for my own expensive tastes, frankly) and whoapparently owes Frannie big time because she nursed him back to health sometime prior to their breakup. Frannie lures Devon (Thomas Sadoski, trying sohard to underplay “finance professional” that he barely registers, really) tovisit her and demands payback in the form of male nursing. This doesn’t sitwell with Jodi (Betti Gilpin), Devon’s grasping and possibly lunaticgirlfriend. Some form of attempted hilarity, of course, ensues. The dramatis personae hews closely to the standards attachedto the ostensible ultra-female-centric rom-com as defined by “Sex And The City”(a series for which Trucillo penned an episode)—gay best friend, a couple ofnon-white characters whose presence practically screams “I’m NOT anafterthought, honest!” —and so on. What exerts an odd fascination here is thateach character heartily embodies a different variety of solipsistic creep; youstart feeling sorry for the creators of the movie for having to live among suchawful people. Then it dawns on you that the film’s creators don’t find thesepeople awful at all —they find them normal. Terrifying, really. “Take Care” moves briskly to its entirely predictable butnonetheless bizarre denouement, in which the heroine happily concludes that SheDoesn’t Need That Guy Anyway, and then, of course, bags him. (Sorry, is that aspoiler?) It’s a peculiar journey, and Bibb is an appealing enough screenpresence that she makes it less philosophically and aesthetically objectionablethan it might have been had she not been in it, but it’s ultimately more ofanthropological interest than aesthetic. Advertisement