Remember this name:Aksel Hennie. If “Pioneer,” a mixed bagof a conspiracy thriller, works at all, it largely does so because of him.Hennie, now into his second decade as an actor in Norwegian film (he’s alsowritten and directed a feature) gives a spectacular performance as Petter, adeep-sea diver on an oil rig who becomes something of a scapegoat after a mishapthat takes the life of his brother and leaves him searching for truth. At the movie’s opening, Petter and brother Knut are alldiving bravado. Working with a team that includes some American oil-and-divingconsultants and laborers (portrayed by the likes ofWes Bentleyand StephenLang), Petter and Knut are excited to hit new depths as they work to create anoil-money payday for themselves and their country’s economy. “That’s one smallstep for a man,” Knut proclaims in English on reaching a particular plateau.Their swagger doesn’t last long, and Petter, after failing to save his brother,has to sit in a decompression chamber for an unconscionably long time. Oncehe’s out, he’s convinced the accident occurred because his oxygen feed was cut.He’s told that he’s mistaken, and he ought to accept his part in what happenedand let it lie. He won’t. Advertisement So begins a drama—inspired by actual events in the early‘80s, as it happens—that writer/directorErik Skjoldbjærgsays was inspired bythe likes of “The Conversation” and “Chinatown.” Those are high bars forinspiration, and while Skjoldbjaerg, whose feature career started very strongwith the remade-by-Christopher-Nolan “Insomnia” in 1997, and veered ofdisastrously with his English-language debut “Prozac Nation,” perhaps the mostcatastrophic example of sophomore jinx in the history of the lively arts,exhibits tight command over action and suspense in the movie’s opening scenes,“Pioneer” falters as its cover-up scenario builds steam.The director seems uncertainof just where he wants the film’s emotional temperature to rest, and sovacillates between a low key that verges on somnolent and brow-furrowedon-the-nose intensity. Through it all, though, Hennie is the anchor. Initiallypuffed-up and full of lean macho confidence, his portrayal of deflation, andsubsequent betrayal, is conveyed in largely physical terms, and the performanceis always entirely compelling. The movie has been bought byGeorge Clooney’sconcern, Smokehouse Films, for a fully-English-language remake, and it’s a safebet that Clooney’s version will be more overtly political than this film. ButClooney might do well to cast Hennie in ANY role in the picture, as it’s clearhe’s got the talent and magnetism to enhance whatever picture he turns up in.And he’ll be turning up in a big one in 2015, playing a supporting role in RidleyScott’s now-filming adaptation of the highly praised sci-fi novel “TheMartian.”