August  Strindberg felt that the entire world had gone crazy. The "norms" of  class hierarchies and gender roles were starting to shatter, and he saw  chaos pouring into that vacuum. His 1888 play "Miss Julie" is the prime  example, although it's evident in all of his other disturbing,  great modern works. "Miss Julie" plays in almost real-time, taking place  in one setting over the course of a single evening, Midsummer Night's  Eve, the one long night of the year when the classes blend together,  when rich dance and drink with poor, when the boundaries have blurred.  There are only three characters in the play, and it opens with Jean, an  upwardly-striving valet remarking to his pal and sort-of girlfriend, the  kitchen maid, that "Miss Julie is crazy!" Miss Julie is the daughter of  the count in whose manor they both work. AdvertisementStrindberg was a nervous man,  whose plays read like frenziedly-written journal entries of despair and  anxiety (crying out, like Dr. Venkman in "Ghostbusters," "Human  sacrifice, dogs and cats living together, mass hysteria!") Legendary  acting teacher Stella Adler lectured extensively on Strindberg (and  other playwrights), and these lectures have been published in a  wonderful volume, "Stella Adler on Ibsen, Strindberg, and  Chekhov." Adler spoke of the difference between Ibsen and  Strindberg, helpful to keep in mind when examining Strindberg: "In  Ibsen, the single person is rebellious. In Strindberg, you can't really  rebel. In Ibsen, you don't break the social form. In Strindberg, the  social pattern of life is broken. The revolt is a strong, nervous one.  It doesn't come through as ideas but as temperament - violent. Inner  conflict with Ibsen leads to ideas; with Strindberg it leads to chaos."When Liv Ullmann's "Miss Julie" works best, it shows us that total  emotional and social chaos, chaos that destroys not only the individual  characters in the play, but the entire society in which they live. "Miss  Julie" is a rather strange experience, with its consistently static  medium shots of the three actors, as they roar their lines at one  another. But it has an undeniable power. For Strindberg to work, one  must feel the context of his time, and understand Miss Julie's immediate  ruination by "falling" for the valet (the script is filled with images  of rising and falling).Ullmann's adaptation of Strindberg's script stays very close to the  original; the main change being that it now takes place on an estate in  Ireland. Ullmann opens up the action only slightly, with the reveling  Midsummer Night's Eve crowds always offstage, heard but never seen.  There are a couple of scenes in Jean's bedroom, and one outdoor scene  when Jean and Miss Julie take a walk. Other than that, the action stays  in the kitchen, suggesting how much Miss Julie is "lowering" herself by  hanging out there. The claustrophobia of the kitchen is overwhelming in  the film, and the shots of Miss Julie wandering through the manor by  herself, her posture broken and stiff, her dress falling off her  shoulder, give us a welcome (and yet rivetingly disturbing) change of  scene.AdvertisementThe three characters are played by     Jessica Chastain    ,     Colin Farrell    and     Samantha Morton    , and each actor has to deliver some of the most  challenging monologues ever written, with no cinematic tricks. Many of  the monologues are delivered wholesale, in one shot, with barely a  cut-away to the listener. It requires A-game acting, shots like that,  and watching these actors work is the main pleasure of "Miss Julie."  Ullmann doesn't worry too much about making the action cinematic, and  the constant monologuing can get a little trying. The entire play is  conversation, bantering at first, growing in desperation, until finally  the chaos roars in like a tsunami. As Miss Julie breaks down, Chastain  is, quite frankly, extraordinary. She gathers her considerable powers  and pours them into a role that is different from anything else she has  ever done. It's a powerhouse performance, without any  self-congratulatory or self-indulgent giveaways. Her agony is so  palpable that one wonders how she will survive her own performance.  Feeling that way is essential for "Miss Julie" to work, and  from Chastain's unforgettable first entrance, sidling into the kitchen,  looking like a wreck, the crack in her psyche is already clearly visible  on her face.Farrell is terrific as Jean, playing around with Miss Julie at first,  following her seemingly heedless orders to kiss her shoe, despite what  it might look like to others, and despite the fact that he is in a  relationship with Kathleen. He warns her at one point that by flirting  with him, she is playing with fire. He's not to be trifled with. He is a  man trapped in his social station, although he is representative of the  movement between the classes, a valet who has traveled the world with  his Master, knows about good wines (although he steals a bottle on  occasion), speaks other languages, and has an ease in the world that  Miss Julie lacks. And yet when the Master rings the bell for him, his  loyalty sways automatically towards the man he serves. He is in deep  conflict, and the fact that Miss Julie falls so hard for him shows that  she is just as "low" as he is. His lust turns to contempt in a  devastating heartbeat. Farrell manages all of this gracefully and  sensitively, as though he were born to play the role. It's a great fit.And Samantha Morton as Kathleen, the maid, is horrified and betrayed by  Miss Julie's inappropriate bantering going on inherkitchen withherman. Unlike the other two  characters, Kathleen knows her place, and respects those "above" her.  The movement between the classes, representative by Jean and Miss  Julie's one-night fling, fills her with disgust and apprehension. She's  Strindberg's stand-in. Morton is magnificent. Some of her best moments  are reaction shots. As Miss Julie babbles to her about how she and Jean  are going to set up a hotel on Lake Como, and maybe Kathleen can work in  the kitchen there, and marry a nice man eventually, Morton's face shows  the deep horror of not only what she is seeing, but the clear madness  in Chastain's performance. "Do you really believe all that, Miss Julie?"  she breathes. "Miss Julie" is filled with small moments like that,  small behavioral moments that are rich and strange, trembling with  possibility and terror.AdvertisementMiss Julie was raised with massive financial advantages, but she was  also raised in total chaos. There is madness in her family line. Her  mother taught her to hate men. That is the crux of Miss Julie's problem,  and that is the destabilizing effect that Jean, the good-looking valet,  has on her. When she "falls" for him, she means it. But the second they  sleep together, Jean turns on her. She's a whore to him now. After Jean  and Miss Julie sleep together, Chastain sits in his bed, stiff and  traumatized, wiping the blood from between her legs, with plucking  frozen fingers, the panic trembling off of her posture. ("Miss Julie"  also, famously, has her period, mentioned in the first scene by  Kathleen, who uses it as a possible explanation for why Miss Julie's  behavior has been so "queer" in the couple of days prior.) With all of  the monologuing in the film, Chastain's body language in that scene, and  directly afterwards, as she walks away from Jean's room, in pain and  entirely altered, tells the story clearer than any words could do.Ullmann fills the score with mournful Schubert and Bach, familiar pieces  of music that become thematic, as opposed to mere pretty background.  The scenes of Miss Julie by herself, trapped in her red bedroom with her  caged finch, or staggering drunk up the main stairway of the manor, a  ruined woman, running from the madness of what she has done, are made  even more powerful by that urgent insistent underscoring.Reaction to the film will depend on how one feels about seeing three  people stand around delivering lines at one another. But the acting is  so good it creates its own mood, outside of anything cinematic that  Ullmann could have chosen to add to it; it creates its own atmosphere of  claustrophobia, hysteria, and self-loathing. Ullmann, a brilliant  actress herself, hands the script over to her actors. It is theirs.