It takes a certain degree of cinematic courage (or madness) totell a story that really only has two characters. If your leads don’t havechemistry; if we don’t believe their relationship; if we just find ONE of themunlikable—you’re in serious trouble. One could program an entirealterna-Sundance of independent films that failed one of these “ifs.” And so I’lladmit that my anticipation level for “Comet,”Sam Esmail’s debut starring wifeEmmy RossumandJustin Long, was relatively low. The movie is barely beingreleased, Long has made his fair share of bad rom-dramedies and two-characterpieces with near-mystical commentary on the state of love and loss are almostalways disastrous. So no one is more surprised than me by “Comet”. Itfeatures career-best work by Long and Rossum, both eagerly devouring Esmail’switty script. Yes, some of it is overwritten and a bit too clever for its owngood, but more often it’s an engaging character piece Advertisement “Comet” tells the story of six years of a relationshipbetween Dell (Long) and Kimberly (Rossum) in intercut scenes of its biggestmoments—meet-cute, break-up, get-back-together, break-up, etc. The narrativejumps from scene to scene out of chronological order, and yet Esmail’s script still builds effectively,which is a more notable accomplishment than you may realize. We have seenplenty of Scenes of a Relationship films but the construction is unique in thatEsmail reveals just enough about his characters at each point in theirtrajectory to really fill in the gaps between them. It feels like Esmail, Longand Rossum really know and love these characters. So while it may be overwritten,it is soulful and truthful. That matters. Dell is pessimistic to a fault (“I hate people who think I’mtoo negative”), the kind of relative misanthrope who lives in the “five-minutes-from-now”due to constant worry. Kimberly lives in the now. Dell falls for her the minutehe sees her, in one of those Comet Streaks Across the Sky moments that most ofus believe only happens in movies and the cynical can’t forgive when it does.He falls so hard, that he asks for her number in front of her truly annoyingboyfriend, a gent who talks about how The Beatles were better when Pete Bestgrounded them and the beauty of soccer. Dell doesn’t want to miss the “now,” ashe has so often in his life. From here, “Comet” starts to jump—break-up, reunion, etc.Each of these scenes is fully constructed and fascinating in its own right, and credit should go to the technical team, particularly editor Franklin Peterson, for keeping these transitions from feeling jarring. A coupleyears after their “Meet-Fate,” Kim and Dell are getting ready for a Louis L’Amour-themedwedding (of all things) in Paris. Their relationship is at a crucial turning point, but itfeels like at least one of them is about to make the wrong decision. These aretwo characters who can’t quite get on the same page, as is so common inrelationships—one is in the now and one is in the five-minutes-from-now.Advertisement Esmail's debut script is reminiscent ofAaron Sorkinin itsdense, rapid-fire dialogue. It has that zip that makes you thinksimultaneously, “No one talks like that…BUT that’s a damn good line.” And Longand Rossum eat it up, both serving as executive producers as well. They havejust the right chemistry to make both their falling-in-love and pulling-apartscenes work. Long, in particular, displays a degree of believablevulnerability that we haven’t really seen from him before, while Rossum isincredibly charming and grounded. We see why Dell would fall for her, and why she would eventually pull away from him. The performances are notably balanced. Both could have been caricatures—the cynic and the pixie girl—but neither remotely are.As “Comet” starts to drift into the mystical, even forcingus to wonder if these images are visions of the future, the past, or some dreamstate, Esmail loses his hold on the material ever so slightly. And one wisheshe had opened up the film a bit more in terms of film structure, as it oftenfeels like it might work better as a two-actor piece on a stage the way itexists now. He also over-uses his score a bit too much, using it often to linkthe different scenes in a way to keep a cinematic throughline, but it gets alittle forceful. In the end, “Comet” is a showcase for Long and Rossum, andthey shine in that spotlight in unexpected ways. Perhaps I’ve just been burnedtoo many times by bad movies about the intertwining of fate and love toremember that sometimes they work. “Comet” works.