Themassive structure at the center of "The Pyramid" is a three-sidedpyramid uncovered in the desert outside Cairo after spending untold millenniahidden deep beneath the sands. Technically speaking, this means that thestructure in question is actually a tetrahedron and not a pyramid but let usget down to brass tacks—there are very few people out there who wouldwillingly pony up good money to see a film entitled "TheTetrahedron," especially a dippy run through the usual horror clichés thatplays like a cross between "The Blair Witch Project" and the SteveMartin ditty "King Tut," only lacking the cinematic grace of theformer and the raw terror of the latter. Advertisement But backto the pyramid, which it shall be continued to be referred because it isslightly easier to spell than "tetrahedron." It has been uncovered bya group led by archaeologist Miles Holiday (Denis O'Hare) and his daughter Nora(Ashley Hinshaw), a duo who are always squabbling because her approach to thejob includes such new-fangled ideas as satellite technology, theories about theconnection between the pyramids and alien civilizations (no doubt culled fromrepeated viewings of "The Being from Another Planet") and a digwardrobe that Lara Croft might find skimpy, while he is an old fuddy-duddy whois more concerned with dusting artifacts with little brushes and stuff.Nevertheless, they both agree to bring a documentary crew, consisting ofambitious reporter Sunni (Christa Nicola) and weasly cameraman Fitzie (JamesBuckley), to film their findings. In other words, this is a found-footagemovie, the notion of which should inspire more chills by itself than anythingin the film proper. Despitepolitical upheaval in Cairo that requires them to pull out of the area and acloud of toxic air released once the pyramid is penetrated, the four, alongwith fifth-wheel techie Michael (Amir K), are forced to enter the structure andit is only a matter of minutes before they find themselves completely lost anddisoriented. As they stumble around in the dark trying to find a way out, theyfind themselves encountering the usual perils one normally encounters afterpenetrating a pyramid: collapsing floors, crashing rocks, hieroglyphicsforetelling doom at every turn and yes, even an army of marauding mutated feralcats with a taste for anything's flesh. As the five continue on, their numbersinevitably begin to dwindle in various messy ways and it becomes apparent thatthere is something else in there with them that makes those feral cats seemabout as threatening as Heathcliff by comparison. In newsthat will probably not startle too many of you, "The Pyramid" ispretty much junk from start to finish. For starters, it is pretty much theexact same thing as the recent "As Above/So Below," lacking only theParisian setting and the irritating typography, and while that may not meanmuch to the vast majority of you, the horror junkies who are the ones mostlikely to check this one out are likely to be really annoyed by this. Thescreenplay byNick SimonandDaniel Meersandis little more than a collectionof dramatic contrivances, characters so thin and irritating that one longs for their demisesmore than their survival and some very risible dialogue ("You aren't going to need the hatchet, but just incase. . .")     Gregory Levasseur    , who in the past has worked with AlexandreAja on such supremely loathsome genre entries as "     High Tension    " and"Mirrors," makes his directorial debut here and demonstrate noparticular feel for the job—there is no real tension to be had, the closestthing to actual scares are the most rudimentary "BOO!" momentsimaginable (though there is one that does kind of work despite its obviousness)and the whole thing is shot so darkly, perhaps inevitable considering thesetting, that there are long stretches where it is difficult to discern what isgoing on.Advertisement And yet, despitethe general crumminess of the whole enterprise, I cannot help but feel a tinybit of affection for "The Pyramid" and its cheesebucket B-movietrappings, even though I wouldn't dream of going so far as to actuallysuggest that you spend your hard-earned money on it. Thanks to theend-of-year awards derby, I have sat through a lot of movies in the last coupleof weeks—films featuring people triumphing over all means ofphysical/emotional adversity, charismatic figures leading their people on marchesto freedom and armies of people layingwaste to mountain fortresses and the     Stephen Sondheim    songbook. Some ofthese have been good and some have been bad, but after a couple of weeks ofcinematic heavy lifting on that scale, sometimes a swarm of mutated feral catscan hit the right spot, if only momentarily.