Getting booed at Cannes isn't always thedisastrous omen it would appear to be. When you look back at all the films thathave sent the crowd at the world's biggest film festival into angry hystericsand notice that its full of arthouse classics like David Cronenberg's"Crash", "Taxi Driver", "Twin Peaks: Fire Walk WithMe" and "L'Avventura", the booing starts to look like a kind ofcrooked honor. An audience rejecting your work might be a sign that you've hita nerve and produced something they can't process. Advertisement "The Captive", thelatest from eclectic Canadian auteurAtom Egoyan, took a royal beating at theFrench festival earlier this year mere weeks after the premiere of hiscritically reviled Memphis Three docudrama "Devil's Knot". The factthat he's been getting mediocre reviews for fourteen years might be proof thata director who once set the world on fire had lost his touch. It's equallypossible that his experimentation in a popular form is an affront to hisreputation as an iconoclast and what he appeared to stand for during his yearsin the spotlight. The truth is that Egoyan's the same director he's alwaysbeen, just as in love with jagged edges and bizarre turns as ever. "TheCaptive" may appear to bite off a little more than it can chew but it'sone of the most satisfyingly baroque thrillers of the year, and thanks to aperfectly judged performance byRyan Reynolds, it's quietly heartbreaking,too. Though Egoyan's signature fragmentedchronology keeps the plot at bay for a while, we eventually learn that a youngcouple (Reynolds and "The Killing's"Mireille Enos) have split in thewake of the kidnapping of their daughter. Enos decided to resign herself tolive without Cassandra (who's played byAlexia Fastwhen we meet her) butReynolds refuses to believe she's dead. Turns out his instincts are correct.Cassandra has been held prisoner for many years by the most effete psychopathoutside of a Bond film (Kevin Durand) who long ago traded whatever sexualexcitement he used to get out of the young girl for the voyeuristic kick ofkeeping tabs on her parents and reminding them of their loss. Still with me?There's also a sex crime unit lead byRosario DawsonandScott Speedmandedicated to tracking down perverts on the internet and a shady developerplayed byBruce Greenwood. That's a little more plot than this film can sellas, like the best Egoyan films, it's primarily about grief and observation. What appears to have happened is that the director took a good, long look atthe way we process information and communicate with each other in 2014 and washorrified by what he found. Intimacy, safety and order have all lost theirmeaning in an age where voyeurism is part of everyday life. "The Captive" takesthis to a slightly cartoonish extreme in the form of Durand's mustache-twirlingvillain, but Egoyan is onto something. 24 hour access to pornography and violentvideo content, to say nothing of the contents of other people's lives viaFacebook, Instagram and Twitter, has congealed into a kind of societalnumbness. What do you do when you get bored of everything? Start playing godand treating other people like characters in a story you're writing. The dangeris not knowing how to end it. If that sounds an awful lot like filmmaking,that's for a reason. Egoyan's shaggy storytelling starts to look a little morepurposeful in light of that. After all, he knew how he wanted "The Captive" toend. Advertisement Divorced of the mind games and subtext,"The Captive" has myriad pleasures. The cinematography is trulylovely, filled with compositions and movements at once soft and angular,recalling not only Egoyan's masterpiece, "The Sweet Hereafter," butalso directors likeMichael HanekeandUlrich Seidl. The sound design isstellar, selling the difference between the hermetically sealed world of thefilm's cruel demigods and the rough-hewn reality of their victims moreconvincingly than the production design. The performances are all fine, but afew stand out. It's great to see Speedman playing an impulsive jerk with noback story for once rather than his typically conflicted nice guy. Enos, theJessica Chastainof B-Movies, wears her mix of anger, despair and hollowoptimism extremely well. But the MVP is Ryan Reynolds. You hardly notice him atfirst, hidden behind a beard and dirty blue-collar uniform. This is maybe themost committed and ego-less he's ever been and just because he's low-keydoesn't mean he shrinks before the demands of the character. Roughly midwaythrough the movie Enos calls to lash out at him (revealing why is a bit of aspoiler), and a decade of pent-up emotions creep across his expression. Beingable to convincingly portray someone who has never allowed himself to expressemotion is no mean feat, and it's during that phone call that the depth of hisachievement becomes clear. Guilt, fear, sadness, anger and helplessness rushinto his eyes and threaten to spill out, but something keeps them at bay. Itcould be his inability to comprehend what Enos is going through, or the factthat in order for him to believe her, he would have to accept that theirdaughter is gone for good. It's enough to make you wish the film were justabout him, but tightening the focus would mean denying us Egoyan's mostsatisfying puzzle in over a decade.