The passion and idealism that fuel both successful andattempted revolutions provide the human focus ofGreg Barker’s “We Are theGiant,” a dramatic account of people active in the movements sparked by theArab Spring. Looking at two people each in Libya, Syria and Bahrain, the filmdoesn’t try to explain the political background or complexities of thesesocieties but instead offers haunting, up-close portraits of individuals whoelect to put their nations’ fates above their own. Wrapped around the three accounts are slickly producedgraphics (scored with soaring music) that invoke popular uprisings before andbeyond the Arab Spring, from the American Revolution to more recent upheavalsin Poland, South Africa, China, Burma and other countries. Though thefilmmakers rather dubiously intermix quotes from tyrants and murderers such asLenin and Che Guevara with others from democratic and non-violent figuresincluding Nelson Mandela and Martin Luther King, Jr., the implicit point thatall revolutions stem from a universal hunger for freedom is nicely offset bythe specificity of the three stories we witness, which illustrate not just thecommonalities but also the differences among recent revolts in the Arab world. Advertisement The film commendably gives us vivid and memorable peoplewhose personal stories strikingly illuminate their peoples’ struggles, as wellas chronicling important bits of history at ground-level with enough narrativescope that we’re able to comprehend events with both more immediacy and moreoverall coherence than in the fragmentary, day-by-day accounts of TV newsshows. Barker and his collaborators, including co-producer Razan Ghalayini andcameraman Fadi Dabbas, incorporate footage of protests and the attempts tosuppress them that’s sometimes wrenchingly violent but that clearlydemonstrates the dangers the pro-democracy activists face in all of thesesituations. Indeed, the lethal finality of those dangers is central tothe first story, about Libya. We quickly learn that one of the two figures whoare the focus of this account, 20-year-old Muhannad Ben-Sadik, was killed inthe attempt to overthrow dictator Moammar Ghadhafi. His story is told by hiscolleagues and the tale’s other protagonist, his father, Osama Ben-Sadik. The boy was brought up in Martinsville, Virginia, where hisfamily enjoyed a typical American middle-class existence. When the uprisingagainst Ghadhafi broke out in his father’s native land, Muhannad went to seefor himself, and his initial curiosity soon gave way to a passionate convictionthat the popular revolt was worth risking his life for. So the student learnedto fire a gun and threw himself into battle. Though viewers will know the successof the anti-Ghadhafi effort, this film provides visceral reminders of the hugeand deadly military apparatus the dictator was able deploy against those whoopposed him. Though Osama, who eventually returned to Libya himself, tells hisson’s story with a certain sorrowfulness, he clearly believes Muhannad’sactions were heroic. In Syria, unfortunately, those who rose up against thatcountry’s ruler, Bashar al-Assad, so far have not had the success their Libyancounterparts did. In telling the Syrian revolt’s story by focusing on activistsGhassan Yassin and Motaz Murad, the film chronicles a movement that beganentirely as a non-violent action, with as few as 50 demonstrators calling forreform and democracy. By the time the marchers numbered in the tens ofthousands, however, Assad felt threatened enough to throw his army into action,with the result that peaceful protestors were gunned down by the hundreds whileothers were captured and tortured. A horrific, and ongoing, civil war ensued. Advertisement While Barker chooses to center his account on leaders of thenon-violent resistance—a welcome reminder of the uprising’s original aims andmethods—the film shows that once some of the anti-Assad forces took up arms,not only did the conflict become violent, it also became multi-national. Asforeign fighters and munitions flowed into Syria, an internal conflict grewinto a magnet for violent agents from around the region and the world—a keyto that nation’s continuing tragedy. The film’s final part will strike many viewers as its mostfascinating and moving segment. That’s partly because the conflict in Bahrainhas had less media attention than those in Libya and Syria, and partly becausethe two young activist sisters focused on here are truly extraordinary and inspiringfigures. Zainab and Maryam al-Khawaja were raised by a father who was a famoushuman rights activist, and they followed his example by joining the campaignagainst the Bahraini monarchy. As in Syria, the pro-democracy movement’sdemonstrations in Pearl Square were initially peaceful. But once the regimefelt sufficiently challenged, it unleashed a brutal reign of terror on theopposition, which included a majority of the gulf state’s population. As in the other segments, the importance of social media andthe evidence provided by cell-phone cameras are omnipresent here, includingduring the arrest of the sisters’ father, who is later tortured and sentencedto life in prison for his peaceful activism. Through all of this, thecharismatic and always-articulate Zainab and Maryam continue their work,whether traveling the world to testify about the situation in Bahrain,recounting how they were inspired by the long struggle of African-Americans, orcoordinating with others in Bahrain. For her troubles, Zainab is arrested seventimes, including immediately after filming her last interview here. She isstill in prison. In the Libyan and Syrian segments, no mention is made ofU.S. involvement (or lack thereof) in the conflict depicted. In the lastsection, it is noted that America has chosen to back the monarchy of Bahrain,where the U.S. Fifth fleet is based. That’s sufficient to give a final sting tothis incisive film, which will inevitably challenge viewers in comfortableWestern countries to wonder whether they would sacrifice as much for their ownfreedom as we see the courageous people here doing at every turn. Advertisement