Orson Wellescan make better movies than most directors with onehand tied behind his back. His problem, of course, is that for 35 years thehand has remained tied. His career is a study in lost possibilities: Havingmade a legendary film debut at the age of 24 with "Citizen Kane"(1941), arguably the best American movie ever made, he was never again lefttotally free to make a film just the way he wanted to. He came close, in films like "The MagnificentAmbersons" (with its ending re-shot by the studio) and "TheTrial". But a film more typical of Welles' dilemma was "Falstaff -Chimes at Midnight" (1968), a triumph of artistic will over impendingbankruptcy. Advertisement "Falstaff"is a great film, but for whole stretches of it Welles is faking it. He shot itwithout sound and dubbed most of the voices himself. He recruited a greatsupporting cast but had to shoot them at moments stolen over the years when hewas able to raise money to go back into production. He included a great battlescene but had to place his camera in its midst because he had so few warriors. Nowcomes Welles' latest work, forthrightly titled "F For Fake." It's afilm about fakes and frauds, including the art forger Elmyr de Hory, thebiography forger Clifford Irving, the mystery man Howard Hughes and even theyoung Orson Welles of the famous "War of the Worlds" hoax. Thefootage teases and tantalizes us - with Irving, for example, talking about deHory's fakes while (we now know) planning a spectacular one of his own. Butstep back from the film, regard it for a moment and it suggests itself on adeeper level as Welles' musings about the connections between fakery and artitself. "CitizenKane," for example, is a film so brilliantly packed full of specialeffects, deceptive shots, double exposures, trick lighting, backgroundanimation and back projection that perhaps only a third of the film actuallyrecords what we think we're seeing. In "F For Fake", Welles playswith the film more obviously, presiding over a ghostly editing room, runningshots back and forth in the movieola as he invites us to take a closer look(pick a look, any look… ). It'sall a bag of tricks, says the master magician Welles. If the result is thesame, if the picture looks the same, isn't a de Hory as worthy as a Picasso?Doesn't, we think to ourselves, "Falstaff" hold together just as wellas if it had been shot in seven weeks instead of seven years? And what aboutthat magnificent double deception Welles paints for us at the end of this film,in which Picasso seems to be faked out of 24 erotic canvases by the grandfatherof the beautiful young model Picasso has faked into his studio? "FFor Fake" is minor Welles, the master idly tuning his instrument while theconcert seems never to start again. But it's engaging and fun, and it'sastonishing how easily Welles spins a movie out of next to nothing. For manyyears, he was reported to have "Don Quixote" as a work in progress.Now, according to the program notes, the working title has been changed to"When Are You Finishing Don Quixote?" Does it matter, when "FFor Fake" has such a sufficiency of windmills? Advertisement