“You should always have something [to fall back on]. Me,I’ve got magic!”John Candy, doing a slightly pointed sendup ofOrson Welles,made that joke in a great SCTV sketch in 1982. The real-life Welles regularlysawedMarlene Dietrichin half to entertain the troops during World War II, andplayed magicians—or illusionists—in films. His final completed feature, “F ForFake,” opens with him doing a little hand magic, before concocting a remarkableillusion in the form of an essay film for 90 minutes. Advertisement “The magician is an actor,” Welles himself is heardreflecting at the opening of this entertaining documentary directed by ChuckWorkman, the master montage-maker whose work is a consistent highlight of theAcademy Awards ceremonies every year. “Magician” is hardly a definitive accountof the inordinately complex actor and creator that was Welles—at a mere 94minutes, it could more accurately be deemed the tip of an iceberg—but it offersa not-bad education for folks who aren’t as familiar with the man and his workas they ought to be, and a few not insubstantial satisfactions for folks likemyself, who agree withJean-Luc Godard’s assessment of the man and his work:“All of us will always owe him everything.” For one thing, Workman’s film tells a different story fromthat of showbiz conventional wisdom. That is that the always precocious Welles(“there’s nothing more hateful,” he chucklingly admits, than the kind ofprodigy he was at the age of ten) was a wunderkind who peaked with his firstcommercial film (that’s 1941’s “Citizen Kane,” still a ripping yarn, poignantreflection, and galvanic primer of cinema language) and descended into a careerpurgatory of his own profligate making shortly thereafter. No, throughout itsdepiction of what it divides up as four phases of Welles’ life, Workman’s movienever stops depicting Welles as an artist: a restless, searching, oftenfrustrated and sometimes frustrating artist, one who never stopped working butwho worked in a fashion completely incomprehensible to the conventional wisdomof the cinema industry. One interviewee points out that film is the only artform in which it’s considered eccentric, if not wasteful, to have left behindas large a body of unfinished work as Welles did. Of course the fact that thereis so much unfinished work isn’t quite so bothersome as that it’s so hard tosee, and the film seems almost weary in its final quarter as it has to makecaveats concerning the unavailability of so much of Welles' work. Take “Falstaff,”a.k.a. “Chimes At Midnight.” This wonderful 1966 Shakespeare hybrid isconfidently proclaimed by actor, director and Welles biographerSimon Callowas“finally, Welles’ masterpiece” (a piece of purposefully provocativequasi-heresy, given the likes of “Kane,” the compromised “The MagnificentAmbersons,” and the magnificent, and largely uncompromised, “The Trial”), butafter the few minutes devoted to it the viewer is informed that it’s tied up inlegal battles. There’s a sense here that Workman’s film, coming as it does alittle prior to the centenary of Welles’ birth, and a possible construction andrelease of Welles’ last fully shot but largely unedited project “The Other Sideof The Wind,” has something of an activist agenda: look at the works of thisamazing film and theater director, scattered in disarray over the four cornersof the globe, Workman seems to be saying. Can’t we do better? Advertisement Film lovers of every generation have to hope we can, and do.In the meantime, while this film elides a lot and makes a questionable choiceor two in its portrayals of Welles’ outsize personality (I like Wolfgang Puck’scooking as much as the next person who’s been to Spago, but I’m not sure hiscomments on Welles’ epicure side were entirely necessary here), it goes to mostof the right people when it comes to shattering the myth of Welles theHollywood flameout: critic/historians Jonathan Rosenbaum and Joseph McBridechime in with apt observations, and Welles’ longtime companion Oja Kodar isenergetic and vibrant and even rather charmingly eccentric. Whatever itsshortcomings, “Magician” accomplishes quite a bit as a corrective, and it alsogives one an hour and a half in the company of Orson Welles. That in and ofitself is worth at least a three-star rating.