When the two writers of the first “Night At The Museum”picture,Thomas Lennonand RobertBen Garant, wrote a jokey but highlypragmatic book entitled “Writing Movies For Fun And Profit,” franchise star BenStiller blurbed it thus: “These two guys are the reason ‘Night At The Museum’won so many Oscars.” Behind the good-natured jokey cynicism there’s a truth: astalent-packed as any “Night At The Museum” picture may be—in this thirdinstallmentRebel Wilson,Dan Stevensand SirBen Kingsleyjoin cast regulars Stiller, the lateRobin Williams, SteveCoogan,Owen Wilson,Mizuo Peckand others—one doesn’t come to a movie of thissort expecting anybody’s best work. Or at least one certainly shouldn’t,because it won’t materialize. Advertisement What “Night At The Museum: Secret Of The Tomb” doesoffer is a tired faux-“Indiana Jones” style prologue giving a little back storyon the ancient Egyptian tablet (which looks like a giant gold ATM pad) with the magic to bring all the historical exhibits to life after the sun goes down. Lookslike the tablet has got a case of ancient-curse rot, and it’s causing theexhibits to intermittently run rampant, causingRicky Gervais’ museum directorto lose his job and Stiller’s guard-turned-keeper-of-the-museum’s-secrets tohead across the pond, where a personage housed in the British Museum may beable to reverse the rot. And so the familiar folk from the first two films,including an incontinent Capuchin monkey, a mugging Attila The Hun, Coogan andWilson’s tag-team pompous Roman and aw-shucks cowhand, both in miniature, andmore, get to rub elbows with a Sir Lancelot who’s plenty confused uponreanimation and an Egyptian semi-deity played by Kingsley. While Stiller has todistract his British counterpart, a chatty night guard played by the volubleWilson. The movie’s scenario and incidental bits are largely asstale as any studio product gets; to go by this movie, there’s no higher formof humor than the juxtaposition of old people doing new/modern things. So,despite the fact thatAndrea Martinis by herself one of the funnier performersalive, “Secret” introduces her librarian character by showing her playing CandyCrush. Ten minutes can’t go by in this movie without it showing Neanderthals’dancing to “Shake Your Groove Thing” or “To Be Real” or “Best Of My Love” or Ican’t tell you what. The CGI Capuchin monkey peeing is also ostensiblyhilarious. I know this is largely a kid’s movie but, I can’t say I wassuper-engaged. Every now and then a cast member will cook up a moderatelyengaging bit of business—one of the Neanderthals, for instance, is a Stillerdoppelganger, also played by Stiller, and their interactions sometimes call tomind the dynamic of the mirror scene inthe Marx Brothers’ “Duck Soup”— and coax a laugh or two, but then the movieshifts back into its formula and becomes a drag again. Things pick up a bit inthe last third, in which Lancelot’s confusion over “Camelot” yields a funnypair of celeb cameos, only to revert to form with awhat-will-happen-at-the-last-minute-to-save-the-day finale and treacly coda.“They come…to learn, Williams’ Teddy Roosevelt mutters rather half-heartedlynear the end of this picture, reflecting on the function that museums can, orought to, play in the lives of children. He also mentions sparking theimagination, all that sort of thing, and at this point, having endured, amongother things, an action scene inside an M.C. Escher drawing that should havebeen a lot more creative fun than it turned out, the adult viewer, reflectingon the idea that this is “just” a kid’s movie, might conclude that kids deservea little better. As did Williams andMickey Rooney, both of whom will have thisexpensive but ultimately indifferent item at the tail ends of their respectivefilmographies.