Presciently arriving at a time when tumultuous relationsbetween U.S. police departments and communities of color have spawned amovement that proclaims “Black Lives Matter,”Nick Broomfield’s documentary“Tales of the Grim Sleeper” introduces a countervailing term: “NHI,” or “nohuman involved.” That, we learn in this disturbing study of urban crime, iswhat Los Angeles police would write, in code to each other, on reports wherethe victims were minority drug abusers, prostitutes or gang members. Suchsocial marginals, the cops evidently thought, almost deserved to be knockedoff, and the community at large was better off without them. Why giveinvestigations of their deaths the kind of seriousness the community wouldexpect of more well-heeled—and/or white—citizens? Advertisement Such attitudes on the part of law enforcement officials, thefilm pointedly suggests, go a long way toward explaining how a man like LonnieFranklin, Jr., could prey on lower-class women and kill more than a hundred ofthem over three decades, becoming perhaps the worst serial killer in U.S.history. Franklin was arrested, almost by accident, in 2010, and his case isstill wending its way through the courts. The judicial system thus has notdelivered a final assessment of his culpability for a staggeringly long seriesof cold-blooded murders, usually involving torture. But the film makes apowerful case that his misdeeds were enabled by a culture in which many blacklives did not, in fact, matter. According to new reports cited in the film, Franklin issuspected of killings that began in the 1980s. The media of later times dubbedhim “the grim sleeper” because there was a long hiatus between those killingsand others that came to light in more recent years. But was Franklin reallyinactive during that period or was law enforcement simply not paying attention? For viewers not familiar with the style of documentaryfilmmaking that Nick Broomfield has practiced in recent years, it’s akin to theanecdotal, first-person mode employed byRoss McElwee,Michael Mooreand MorganSpurlock. The British filmmaker often appears on-screen, here usually wearing at-shirt and the headphones and tape recorder of a soundman. Offering occasionallaconic commentary, he motors around looking for people who can give himinformation about the case and filming the places the crimes reportedly tookplace. Most of those locales are in the poor South Central area ofLos Angeles, a world away from the swimming pools and mansions of Hollywood andBeverly Hills. The most vivid and important location is Lonnie Franklin’s home,a fairly ordinary ranch house with a decent-sized, fenced-in front yard andrear garage. It’s here that, according to reports, Franklin would bring thewomen he picked up—usually black prostitutes or drug addicts—and engage inrough sex before killing them. How could he get away with it for so long? Did others notknow what he was up to? As Broomfield circles through South Central, heencounters and interviews several black men who were Franklin’s friends. Theypaint a picture of a guy who in many senses was fairly unremarkable. Sure, hedealt in stolen cars, but he was decent and helped his neighbors. Some of thesemen knew of Franklin’s interest in picking up women, but this wasn’t consideredunusual, though he was married to a church-going woman who apparently spent alot of time away from him. At least one man accompanied Lonnie when he took thewomen home, but claims he didn’t know about the murders. Advertisement Broomfield also talks with several women who knew Franklinand his milieu. Some serve as his tour guides, though there’s evidently somerisk in a black woman showing a white man around the ‘hood. (With one smallexception, it’s never mentioned whether he paid for such help.) He meets onewoman who is supposedly the only person to have survived one of Franklin’sattacks, and she calmly tells him how Lonnie shot her after sex. But then itemerges that there were other survivors of his garage death-chamber—not onebut several. Broomfield talks to them all. The picture that emerges from theseconversations is one of a social arena where poor women are simply disposable.The men in the community don’t care about them, most other women don’t care,and the police in general (none of whom submit to the interviews thatBroomfield requests) don’t care and don’t engage, in part because they’refeared and mistrusted. One black woman tells how she instructs her son: ifthere’s ever any trouble, here’s a list of friends and relatives to call—donotcall 911, because that will bringthe police and, with them, more trouble than you’ve already got. If there are any heroic figures in this sad tale, it’s thewomen of Black Coalition Fighting Back Serial Murders, a grassroots activistsorganization that took notice of the killings back in the ‘80s and spentdecades trying to bring official and media attention to them. Their effortscertainly made a difference, yet when random DNA computer tests result inFranklin’s apprehension, the powers-that-be in L.A.—including the policechief, mayor and once-and-future governor Jerry Brown—hold aself-congratulatory news conference in which they make it seem that the GrimSleeper case was finally solved as a result of diligent police concern andeffort. All the evidence that Broomfield presents suggestsotherwise. Yet “Tales of the Grim Sleeper” is less polemical or argumentativethan it is descriptive, almost anthropological. Viewers of different politicalpersuasions might well interpret its findings differently. Yet the film’sgradual, observant accumulation of details has a singular and lasting power:you won’t forget the troubled, troubling world that Broomfield shows you. Advertisement