Turkish filmmaker Nuri Blige Ceylan is undeniably aworld-class filmmaker, but he does not, as they say, crush it every time up. Togo back a few films, his 2006 “Climates” was a moody and mordantly funnyrelationship sulk; his 2008 domestic drama “Three Monkeys” was too impressed byits allegorical leanings; his 2011 “Once Upon A Time In Anatolia,” while searing, also felt a littletoo self-consciously ambitious. The running time of his new picture “WinterSleep,” three hours and change, suggests a similar weight, but at it happens,this movie struck me as both Ceylan’s plainest, and perhaps his finest. Advertisement On itssurface, “Winter Sleep” seems to partake, if not indulge, a familiar Europeanart-film staple, placing a male protagonist in various forms ofisolation/alienation from relatives and friends as he and they discuss burningissues of philosophy and emotion. Ceylan invokes/evokes Chekhov in hisscenario: protagonist Aydin, an aging former theatrical actor, runs a hotel ina picturesque section of Anatolia and desultorily deals with surly tenants onsome land he owns, a disenchanted (and much younger) wife, a watchful sister,and various others, revealing the discontents at the roots of all theirrelationship and a deep dissatisfaction with life itself, despite the prestigeand autonomy and leisure that Aydin enjoys. The movie, which won the Palme d’Or at this year’s CannesFilm Festival, has been disparaged by some skeptical critics as a gabfest, andit’s true, there’s a lot of talk here, and very little of it’s small. Butthat’s not to say that the film is glacially paced; even when staying in thesame settings, Ceylan’s camerawork and editing are terrifically alert. Thetalk, for all its abstractions, gradually lays bare the poor regard with whichmost of the characters hold each other, and, at about the halfway point, whenAydin (played with glum tenacity byHaluk Bilginer) calls his put-upon spouse(Melisa Sözen) a “bored neurotic,” the fur really begins to fly. Not much ofwhat is said by these characters is particularly novel or earth-shaking it’strue, but I think that’s central to what Ceylan is doing here. This is a workof cinema, not theater or prose, and what counts most in “Winter Sleep,” to meat least, is not the commonplace sentiments of dysfunction and dread, butspaces between the words. The accumulation of images imbues the film with akind of bleak coziness that brings to life the accusation that Aydin’s sisterNecia (Demet Akbag) levels at him: “In order not to suffer, you prefer to foolyourself.” The strength of “Winter Sleep” is not so much in what any ofthe characters say as much as what it needs its near-monumental length toactually show: which is the way the most seemingly banal circumstances canthrow you into a dark night of the soul before you even know what’s going on, astate of wide-awake despair so calamitous one has no choice but to make acompanion of it. That sounds like a paradoxical state—and it is, a painfullyparadoxical one, but it’s a real one, and the signal accomplishment of “WinterSleep” is that Ceylan’s empathy and technical facility make it palpable in theartistic realm. It’s a daunting achievement and in a strange way also acomfort. Advertisement