Films like “Unbroken,” and theLaura Hillenbrandbook onwhich it’s based, capture something we all hope is true about ourselves—that we too are unbreakable. That when faced with horrendous, life-threateningsituations, we would respond in similar fashion to Louis Zamperini, finding anew well of courage within ourselves and surviving the unimaginable. It is theresilience of the human spirit that has drawn us to films based on true storiesagain and again to experience pain and triumph in the relative comfort of amovie theater seat. Advertisement “Unbroken” opens with a powerfully staged and shot sequence ofaerial combat that surprisingly defines the film's strengths and weaknesses overthe next two-plus hours. The attention to detail as Zamperini (Jack O’Connell),Russell ‘Phil’ Phillips (Domhnall Gleeson) and Hugh ‘Cup’ Cuppernell (JaiCourtney) spin their plane around and take aim at the enemy feels accurate.There’s a weight to the gunfire and a fragility to the aircraft itself thatconveys that these people were always a more-accurate gunsight away fromtragedy. And yet there’s something wrong here too. The sunset on the horizon lookslike a painting. The clouds are perfectly placed for visual impact. The little drop of blood on Zamperini’s forehead can’t hidehis movie star looks or movie star make-up. Everything feels accurate in itsstaging, and yet also not quite genuine. It's Hollywood, old-fashioned movie accurate. And despite O’Connell’s instant charisma (theguy is going to be a MASSIVE star), this feeling never leaves “Unbroken”—the sensethat we’re watching human suffering that looks too pretty and too refined toconvey its intended impact. Louis Zamperini should have become a household name for hisathletic ability. The “Torrance Tornado” was a US Olympic athlete whose careerwas cut short when he joined World War II as a bombardier. Even in country,Zamperini is seen training, pushing himself right at the moment that mostpeople would give up. He is the kind of runner who hangs back, and only makeshis move when everyone has reached the point of exhaustion. Of course, this isa character trait that will serve him well during the nightmare he’s about toendure. Zamperini and two other men, including Phil, survive a plane crash in themiddle of the Pacific Ocean. They barely make it long enough to board a raft,where the conditions of hunger, dehydration and heat exhaustion take theirtoll. These scenes are remarkably well-staged and executed by directorAngelina Jolieand her team. They’re the best in the film, the moments in which we can feelZamperini’s increasing desperation and likely death. They have a focus, fragility and purpose that the second half of the film lacks. Advertisement That begins when Zamperini is captured after 47 days adrift,and forced into horrific conditions and hard labor in Japanese Prisoner of Warcamps. Here, Jolie simply fails to convey the danger and what’s truly at stake. “Unbroken”starts to go through the motions of history recreation instead of real character drama, and while I have lovedRoger Deakins’ work inthe past, it’s too “pretty” here, covering every shot in that vague beige ofWWII memory, which never allows us to put ourselves in Zamperini’s speedy shoes. If wecan’t feel the urgency of his plight, we won’t have the same emotional responseto it as we would with more blood, more dirt, and just more danger. It becomessomething we watch instead of something we experience. There's a difference. The relative disappointment of “Unbroken” has nothing to do withJack O’Connell, a truly gifted actor who has emerged as a fully-formed moviestar with this, his even better work in “Starred Up,” and next year’s great “’71.”He may not be a household name yet. He will be. In fact, he’s so good that onewishes Jolie asked more of him. Gleeson also deserves praise for taking asmaller role and making it memorable. He too is an actor really worth watching.“Unbroken” could be a film that we look back on as an early entry in thecareers of major stars. Because the disappointing thing is we won’t really look backat the film itself on its own merits. It’s one of those inspirational Hollywooddramas about which there isn’t anything "overtly wrong" with it. It’s well-cast,it looks great, it has that intense centerpiece in the raft, and it certainlyconveys a true story worth telling. And yet I keep coming back to thatbeautiful sunrise that opens the film. It’s just too damn pretty.