Directed byClint Eastwoodin what some may take asalarmingly short order following “Jersey Boys” (which was released only sixmonths ago, for heaven’s sake), “American Sniper” proves the dictum “nevercount an auteur out” by proving itself as Eastwood’s strongest directorialeffort since 2009's underrated “Invictus” pretty much right out of the startinggate. Opening with a brutally suspenseful moment of decision for its titularcharacter,Chris Kyle, the movie establishes all of the things it’s going to beabout—and the things it’s not going to be about—with plain but almostbreathtaking assurance. Advertisement “Sniper” is based on a true story that got more complicatedafter Kyle himself told it in the book that gives the film its title. Adaptedfrom that book by actor-turned-screenwriterJason Dean Hall, the story begins,after its Iraq-set prologue, showing Kyle as first a boy and then a young man.A schoolyard bullying incident compels Kyle’s father (Ben Reed) to give a scarydinner-table fire-and-brimstone speech to Chris and younger brother Jeff aboutshowing would-be tough guys who’s boss (“we protect our own”); the weight ofexpectation seems to jam the two boys down, and in a flash-forward to the boysas young men, they’re leading the aimless lives of wannabe rodeo stars. Thatall changes when Chris decides to apply to join the Special Forces (the film depictshim doing so after seeing TV coverage of the 1998 attacks on U.S. embassies inTanzania and Kenya). As he’s developing a new sense of purpose while training,he also meets future wife Taya (Sienna Miller). Post 9/11, the war in Iraq putsKyle to work as a sharpshooter, and the film depicts his skills in this area asalmost eerie. They were so in real life, too, as it happens; Kyle rackedup 160 confirmed kills, making him the deadliest such operative in U.S. Navyhistory. Eastwood’s handling of various battle scenarios, including those inwhich Kyle is compelled to take down women and children, is typicallyanti-elaborate for the director. Grim, purposeful, compelling. Violence and itsrelation to both American history and the American character is one ofEastwood’s great themes as both a filmmaker and a film actor. But he is not adirector of an overly analytical or intellectualizing bent, and this turns outto be one of this movie’s great strengths. It has nothing to say about whetherthe war in Iraq was a good or bad idea. It simply IS, and Kyle is an actor init, and he’s also a devoted husband and father. But Kyle is more than just anactor in the war: he’s a true believer in what he’s doing, and his intensity inthis respect bleeds into his relationships back at home in ways that can’t helpbut be unsettling. When a fellow soldier is killed in a raid, Kyle returns tothe U.S. to attend the funeral. At the graveside, a relative of the soldier’sreads one of his last letters, expressing doubt and disappointment about thewar. On the drive home Chris avers to Taya that what killed his friend was“that letter.” Taya doesn’t know how to respond; the viewer likely doesn’t,either, or at least shouldn’t. The role of Taya (well-played by Sienna Miller;this and her turn in “Foxcatcher” represent a release from Movie Jail for theactress) could have been another stock Complaining Military Wife in otherhands. In this film, she’s more complex; she clearly knows that the qualitiesshe admires/loves in Kyle—his rigid loyalty and sharp focus, his determinationto see his commitments through—are inextricable from his identity as a militaryoperative. But even a warrior as devoted as Kyle can’t escape being messed withby his mission. As the film continues, and the sniper’s rep grows morefearsome, the nature of his accomplishments gets messier and messier, and bythe time the sniper has completed his tour, the viewer has good reason to be alittle, or more than a little, frightened by the guy. But Taya is not. Thisputs the whole story on an oddly suspended note that, as it happens, isresolved by a real-life ending that’s not very Hollywood. Advertisement StarBradley Cooperdoes some of his best acting ever here.Bulked up to make himself resemble, with respect to body shape, a large-scalenine-volt battery, Cooper suppresses the actorly knowingness he’s brought tomost of his prior screen roles and gives his character here a simultaneouscredulousness and edge. He feels like a dangerous guy—but not a malicious one.His lack of self-doubt never comes off as alienating in its steadfastness, evenat moments when it seems like it’s misplaced, as when Kyle finds out for thelast time that he can’t really be his brother’s keeper. Moments such as thatone, and they are strewn throughout the movie, are what make “American Sniper”one of the more tough-minded and effective war pictures ofpost-American-Century American cinema.