Survival horror is a tough enough genre to pull off; definingthe characters within one through tired clichés and boring archetypes only makesit more so. Films like “Preservation” only work if the viewer can put him orherself in the shoes of a character trapped in a nightmare. What would you doif you were hunted like prey? Would you be able to kill, even if it was inself-defense? Would you be able to sacrifice your own safety for that of aloved one? Such questions only have resonance if the characters and theirplight feel genuine. Such is not the case with “Preservation,” a film thatbold-faces and underlines its quasi-commentary on a generation addicted totechnology and cell phones but has less relatable humanity than most of the videogames it attempts to decry. Advertisement Sean (Pablo Schreiberof “Orange is the New Black) is arecently returned vet who mumbles foreboding nonsense like “A real hunter doesn’tgive chase; a real hunter is already there” while on the way to a hunting tripwith his brother Mike (Aaron Statonof “Mad Men”) and sister-in-law Wit (WrennSchmidt of “Boardwalk Empire”). Sean might as well be wearing a neon shirt thatsays “This Can’t Possibly End Well.” And he’s clearly not the only one dealingwith issues as, of course, Wit is newly pregnant and her marriage is not in thebest of shape. Unlike the off-the-grid Sean, Mike can’t get off his cell phonelong enough to fix the problems in his life. It’s the hunter brother, the techbrother and the vegan caught in the middle! When Sean casually asks Wit over abonfire, “When’s the last time that you and Mike made love?,” one will assumethat “Preservation” is going to a love triangle climax in which Wit has tochoose between the brainy brother and the brawny bro. I must give writer/directorChristopher Denham(star of TV’s“Manhattan,” as well as important supporting roles in “Argo” and “ShutterIsland”) credit in that that assumption is mostly wrong. Sean, Mike and Wit wakeup in a very different nightmare. Overnight, their clothes and supplies have been stolen, and,far more ominously, each of their foreheads has been marked with a black X.What started as a character drama has taken an abrupt left turn, which isrefreshing in theory, but the turn ends up being a dramatically thin,predictable one, as “Preservation” plays out as a traditional hunter-vs-preysurvival drama straight out of the ‘80s. One minute, the characters are gettingto know each other, the next minute one is stabbing someone while muttering thevery Stallone-esque “You killed my dog and now I’m going to kill you.” The tormentors are slowly revealed—and I won’t spoil thedetails of precisely who they are—but they’re very clearly designed to callback to video game culture of the last five years, with masks that will remindplayers of games like “Army of Two” or the mega-popular “Call of Duty”franchise. One of the killers even pauses long enough to play a violent videogame on his phone just in case the message isn’t crystal clear. Denham’s scriptfires shots at easy targets instead of producing actual tension. To be fair, Schmidt isactually quite good, giving her performance the physical all that it willclearly demand from scene one, but Denham doesn’t give her enough to do as anactress other than to survive his too-obvious structure. There are fewsurprises here after the narrative’s turn to survival horror as the film plodsto its inevitable conclusion, and even that final shot feels unearned. Advertisement