The mindreels at the thought of trying to review "Predestination." Not thatit is bad, mind you—in fact, it is really, really impressive and well worthventuring out to find despite the crummy January weather (those in especiallyintemperate areas will be relieved to find that it is on VOD as well)—but because this is one of those films that is sofilled with twists, turns and unexpected developments that even the mostoblique plot discussion threatens to wander into dreaded spoiler territory.Then again, I admit that I knew pretty much everything that was going to happengoing in thanks to my familiarity with the source material, Robert Heinlein'scelebrated 1959 short story "—All You Zombies—," and still foundmyself knocked out by its startlingly effective translation from thepage to the screen. I will try to keep the details to a minimum, but, trust me,the less you know going in, the better, especially considering the fact thatthe story deals in no small part with time travel (and all of the attendingparadoxes) and that is not even close to being its most unusual aspect. Advertisement As itturns out, there are such things as Temporal Agents, an elite group of peoplecharged with traveling through time in order to prevent horrible crimes beforethey occur. As the film opens, one such agent is trying to disarm the latestdeadly explosive set by the Fizzle Bomber, a terrorist wreaking havoc onSeventies-era New York when it goes off in his face, burning him badly in theprocess. He manages to return to headquarters and after massive plastic surgeryand a long recuperation process, he recovers and now looks likeEthan Hawkeinthe bargain. Returning to New York in the hopes of catching the Fizzle Bomber,he is working as a bartender when he strikes up a conversation with a slightlyandrogynous-looking guy who calls himself "The Unmarried Mother"—hemakes his living writing fake tales of woe for so-called "confession"magazines—and who promises to tell "the best story that you everheard," a saga that begins in 1945 when she was left on the steps of anorphanage as an infant. Yes,"she" for, as it turns out, he started life as a girl named Jane.Growing up in the orphanage, Jane (eventually played as an adult by SarahSnook) was relentlessly picked on by her peers for being different but provedto be smart as a whip, surprisingly strong and filled with determination. Thesequalities, not to mention the retention of her virginity, prove to be ofinterest to SpaceCorp, a Sixties-era government agency charged with recruitingwomen to go into space to provide relief, as it were, for astronauts on longmissions. Alas, after a fight, she is kicked out of SpaceCorp, but one of thepeople in charge, the enigmatic Mr. Robertson (Noah Taylor), continues to findher of interest. Around this time, though, Jane meets a mysterious man andfalls in love but is crushed when he vanishes, leaving her pregnant and alone.While delivering her child, another unanticipated discovery is made that willchange her life forever, among other things. But I have already divulged farmore than I probably should have, even though I have not even come close togetting to the truly wild stuff yet. So whatcan I talk about? For starters, there is the impressive job that the Australianwriting-directing team of brothers Peter andMichael Spierighave done inbringing Heinlein's story, which he claimed to have written in a day, to life.Sticking fairly close to the source material for the most part, they havefigured out a way of recounting it in a way that is straightforward enough formost attentive viewers to follow and yet complex enough toinspire them to want to go back and watch it again. (Here is where theVOD option might be helpful.) As for the time travel aspect,"Predestination" follows the lead of some of the best films of its type(a short list including the likes of "Time After Time," "Back tothe Future II," "Primer" and "Looper") by embracingthe potential paradoxes rather than trying to ignore or explain them away—theresults are utterly preposterous, of course, but in a manner more entertainingthan annoying. (The only time the narrative steps wrong is towards the end,mostly involving material inventedsolely for the film, and even then, these are flaws born of ambition ratherthan laziness.) From a stylistic standpoint, it also impresses in the way thatit evokes the look and feel of the various eras that it touches on via clevercostumes, production design and cinematography rather than through lavishspecial effects. Advertisement At theheart of "Predestination," however, are the two central performancesby Ethan Hawke andSarah Snookthat bring genuine emotional weight to astoryline that could have easily plunged into utter nonsense. Hawke, forexample, is an actor who in recent years has more often than not beengravitating towards material that is off-beat and original—at this point, his name on a marquee pretty muchguarantees that the film in question will at least be somewhat interesting.Even though he is more or less playing the straight man this time around, hestill clearly recognizes a juicy story when he sees it (as he did with hisprevious collaboration with the Spierigs, the better-than-average vampire saga"Daybreakers") and gives real life to a character that could haveeasily blended into the woodwork in other hands. As theheart of the story, however, Sarah Snook delivers a knockout performance thatcalls on her to perform the kind of tricky scenes that could have resulted inbad laughs throughout if handled incorrectly. Not only does she pull off herperformance brilliantly throughout—there is not one moment in which she isanything less that utterly convincing and believable—I would go sofar as to put her work here up against any of the current front-runners for theBest Actress Oscar. If you have never heard of her before, it probably meansthat you are one of the many who didn't see her in "Jessabelle," adopey horror movie that came and went last fall. In that film, she was by farthe best thing on display in a very bad movie. Here, she is the best thing ondisplay in a very good one. It's about time.