Musa Syeed’s first feature, “Valley of Saints” is a quiettapestry of such colorful beauty that it had me sighing and smiling throughevery scene. Set in the waters of Dal Lake (Kashmir), it takes us through thelife of Gulzar (Gulzar Ahmed Bhatt), who plans to secretly escape his homelandwith his best friend Afzal (Mohammed Afzal). He meets a scientist named Asifa (Neelofar Hamid), and has todecide. At one level, this is a classiclove triangle: a man competes with his best friend for a woman’s attention. At another, this is a film we’ve never seenbefore: Syeed explores the heart of a rarely visited landscape, and the soulsof the resilient Kashmiri people. Thisis an amazing film. Advertisement Morning breaks. Gulzar wakes his beloved, white-haireduncle. Tending to his needs, he helpshim brush his teeth. He feeds him breakfast. Massages him. After his uncle departs, he leaves for workas a shikara wala. The shikaras are cousins of Italian gondolas: long slender,two-seated wooden boats, used to taxi tourists through the lake.  Gulzar offers rides to visitors through thetranquil setting. Because of politicalproblems, however, the industry suffers, so their opportunities suffer. Afzal arrives and the two spend their evening together—singing, hugging, playing. These are twofriends whose love far exceeds any Hollywood bromance, where such tightfriendships seem to end with grade school. The two here are one in love, or something deeper. They remind me that a friendship is possiblethat reaches such a depth that “love” is not a sufficient adjective. It is as though modernity coerces us to skimpon friendship, though the struggles of modernity—nationalist wars—orphaned them, bringing them together in the first place. And, then they meet Asifa. Asifa is an American-trained researcher exploring pollutionlevels throughout the lake. She is, atfirst, cold and abrasive to these gentlemen, and that ignites their attraction to her. She is a perfect contrast tothem. They are two men—rather, boys—from a small, sheltered idyllic worldtrying to break out. She is an expat whohas traveled the globe, now returning home to see the environment beneath thegreenery, seeing the second side to Kashmir. If a place on the earth can lay claim to paradise, it isKashmir, and if there is a place that embodies all the dark consequences ofhumanity, it too is Kashmir. It is aspecial land of forced contradictions. It is full of colossal green mountains. Dal Lake is blanketed by lily pads. The people themselves have distinct features; their beauty and quiet—almost zen like calm—makes them distinct from their fellows across theSubcontinent. Advertisement But, because of its scenic majesty and location, Kashmir isthe subject of a generations long tug-of-war between India and Pakistan. Theresult, in the film, is an uprising taking place a block away, betweenseparatists throwing rocks and soldiers firing bullets. If that is not enough, the neighborhoods feellike shanty towns filling up the lake with discarded paper and plastic, makingmuch of the water poisonous. There is something complex in Musa Syeed’s direction thatcaptures so many contrasts and so many layers. Almost all the performers arenon-actors, perfectly cast as simple people with tender dreams, navigating lifewithin a larger narrative far stronger and forceful than they themselvesare. They exude a tenderness indisposition and tone that quickly draws our attention and sympathy. The sets are fascinating. Some of the buildings are such ornate wood-carved structures that Syeedgives us just enough to get a flavorful taste. Others, however, are sofunctional and repulsive that we feel the oppositions in thejuxtapositions. Most of all, he has a skill in capturing the quiet momentsin life, inviting us to share in the serenity. The film works as a deep commentary on noise, where silence representsall of our ideals and noise represents the shattering of that mythicperfection. The lake’s only sound is thetrickle of water, sometimes interrupted by the shikara oars. Meanwhile, guns blast from the rifles offully armed guards, just minutes away. As tensions rise between Gulzar andAfzal, they too fight, splashing the water, removing the calm. All in all, the default sound of theenvironment is still a deep, almost inviting silence. Meaning, against all the decay, our idealspersist. In the end, as Gulzar and Afzal try to run away, they haveto choose between their loves. Is it thelove for each other that helps them escape? Are they held back by love for their withering homeland that once seemedto be protected by saints? Or, is there something else? Syeed’s film is a mostambitious, most intimate picture about a most persistent, most modestpeople.