“Match” opens with an assuredPatrick Stewartinstructing agroup of female ballet dancers on the main floor (I presume) of the GloryaKaufman Dance Studio at Julliard. The windows give a splendid view of somedistinguished architecture in wintry Manhattan. One might be apt to wonder, asone watches, what the title “Match” has to do with ballet. Wrapping up at the studio, Stewart’s character, Tobi, begsoff on a dinner invite from a colleague and goes to his well-appointed home.After a standard-issue montage of NYC real estate porn and glimpses of framedphotographs of a superstar life in the ballet (very well Photoshopped, I mustsay, unless Stewart himself had occasion to put on the tights in his own work), the movie settles in as Tobi visits a favorite Spanish restaurant and preparesto meet Lisa (Carla Gugino), an aspiring dance historian working on adissertation. In an unusual move, this researcher has brought along herhusband, a taciturn cop (with a Village People-worthy cop mustache, even) namedMike. The bluff, voluble, nervously chatty Tobi holds forth on wine and workand more until it becomes evident, once the trio’s decamped back to Tobi’sapartment, that the couple are not who they seem. Advertisement That’s where the title comes in and makes sense. Lisa’sreally a put-upon spouse trying to help an angry partner who believes he wasabandoned by his dad. Tobi, although a gay man, is a prime suspect in the daddepartment. After the oodles of erudite, feinting banter—“rigor, it’s about therigor,” Tobi says of his craft and profession, but when his interlocutersinquire about the sexual mores of the ‘60s in which he came up, he dryly says“so, you want to know about the f**king,” and until he learns of Lisa andMike’s ruse, he’s more than eager to dish—it’s clear that the “match” is whatMike and Lisa seek, as in DNA. “Why on earth didn’t you ask this from right out?” Tobi demands,enraged. But after a shocking act of violation, he resumes an avuncular mode,treating Lisa to some compassion and wisdom while trying to calculate how heshould deal with the potential of late fatherhood. Adapted by writer/directorStephen Belberfrom his own play,“Match” has enough meaty and engaging character material to effectivelysidestep the very theatrical contrivance of its plot premise, which does have agreat deal of potential for reversal and counter reversal and indeed takes fulladvantage of that potential. And obviously the Actors’ Showcase aspect of thismaterial is very real, and the actors, particularly Stewart and Lillard, makethe most of it. Lillard, who two decades ago made a career of playing goofycocky bros, here proves a maestro of bottled-up post-bro rage, while Stewartluxuriates in both artiste’s bravado and Distinguished Senior ruefulness.Gugino’s role has the least combustible elements although in a sense it’s themost difficult: she has to convince as both a sharp grad student and a somewhatsquelched, frustrated wife. And she does. This is hardly a world-shaker of amovie but it is a well-constructed and thoughtful character study brought tovivid life by its players. As we brace ourselves for a franchise-heavy 2015,that alone is worth celebrating and supporting.