See that lost, uncertain look inThomas Jane’s eyes in thatpicture above? It’s there in every scene in “Vice,” almost to the degree that Ithink he’s winking at the audience at times—Yes,I know this is B-movie junk, but I needed the paycheck. Just go with it.The problem with “Vice” is that it can’t even fulfill those low, for-the-money,pure escapism expectations. It’s one of those nearly straight-to-VOD piecesthat fluctuates between boring and offensive, never rising above eitheradjective. Some will dismiss it by saying it’s so ineffective as to neverreally aggravate critical faculties, but that doesn’t mean it’s not a completewaste of time and talent as well. Advertisement In a not-too-distant future, the elite have access to avirtual reality playground that allows them to live out their wildest fantasieswith “Blade Runner”-esque androids who look and behave exactly like realpeople. Always wanted to rob a bank and shoot your way out of the ensuingconflict? Go to Vice, run by the above-the-law Julian (Bruce Willis). Ofcourse, as in all Hollywood condemnations of violent video game culture (whichis what this is at its core), the violence of this fantasy world bleeds outinto the real world, making problems for tough-as-nails cop Roy (Jane). Thepaper-thin idea being that if people are allowed to give into their wildestfantasies, they won’t be able to distinguish between them and reality. And sothe people who get ultra-violent in the world of Vice continue that in Roy’sdistrict, leading him to target Julian as public enemy #1. Meanwhile, Kelly (Ambyr Childers, so great in the underrated“We Are What We Are”), a replicant in the world of Vice who goes through everyday thinking that’s a special one and usually ends up killed, has becomeself-aware. Without warning, her system malfunctions, and she’s overloaded withmemories she shouldn’t have. Self-aware, she goes on the run, even trackingdown her creator and helping Roy topple the corrupt adult playground of Vice. If it sounds familiar, it should. Borrowing liberally fromclassics like “Blade Runner” and dozens of quasi-sci-fi non-classics like “Virtuosity,” “Vice” feelsas artificially replicated as the androids in its narrative. Judgedsuperficially, “Vice” does nothing that hasn’t been done before with more styleand substance. The movie is visually dull even when judged against itslow-budget, essentially straight-to-VOD brethren. Most people don’t come tomovies like “Vice” for complex visual storytelling, but that doesn’t mean weshould excuse cheap sets, dull framing and other signs of lazy filmmaking. Even if it didn’t work as art or escapism, “Vice” wastes anopportunity for social commentary as well. Roy is a non-character, almost soinconsequential to the storyline that poor Jane doesn’t look like he’s beendirected to do anything in the climactic scenes. Even the directorrealized they didn’t need him. Worst of all, “Vice” is about giving personalityand life to an android female who has been created as a plaything for men toabuse and behave with without repercussions. And yet turning Kelly self-awaredoesn’t make her confident and driven. It sends her back into the arms of hermale creator, turning her into a damsel-in-distress who can only be saved by aman. That’s a bad B-movie concept of identity. And by the time director BrianA. Miller finally gives Kelly something to do, it’s in the most generic “toughaction movie chick” way possible. The talented Childers deserves so muchbetter. Heck, so does Thomas Jane. Advertisement