A consistent—almost catalog-like, you might say—array ofpictorial wonders, “Medeas,” the debut feature from the Italian-born directorAndrea Pallaorois also a work of considerable daring. This plain, almostminimalist narrative presents itself from a position that neither talks down tonor attempts to cozy up to its audience. Set in a sun-drenched setting thatsuggests Southern California and/or Mexico, the movie opens with a relativelyidyllic moment for the family that is its subject. In a swimming hole, fatherEnnis (Brian F. O’Byrne) is bent over holding his breath underwater as two ofhis young sons watch. High-spirits continue as they come to ground, and posefor a snapshot with mom Christina (Catalina Sandina Moreno) and the other threekids in their brood, who range in age from teen to infant. Advertisement O’Byrne looks a bit more like a cattle rancher than Morenolooks like a mother of five, but not that much, and anyway I oughtn’tgeneralize, particularly in a way that might be construed as sexist. My point,such as it is, is that everyone in this movie looks real good.Ian Nelson, whoplays teen son Micah, who likes to draw tattoos on his arms with a ballpointpen, is particularly well-coiffed, in an Abercrombie way even. So “Medeas”reads almost immediately as a kind of fable rather than a work in a realisticmode. About fifteen minutes in, the viewer learns that Christina is so quietbecause she’s literally mute. One doesn’t, on the other hand, learn preciselywhen this movie is set. There’s one scene in which the family tries to watch ablack-and-white television and one member is moving it around the room to getthe best antenna feed; in a scene a little later one, the sole smart-ass amongthe children informs a younger sibling that “Mom has AIDS.” Okay, then. At other points in the film it comes to light that Ennis isin a lot of debt, that Christina is carrying on an affair, and that thosechildren in the household who are in a position to commit acts of rebellionfrom the family are doing so. Things are not well, and if you glom that themovie’s title is a plural of a Greek Classical Allusion, you have an idea thatit’s all coming to a bad end. But it’s getting there in a very visuallybeautiful way. The family is one of modest means, but it dwells in a spacewhere even the paint on the bathroom walls peels off in a picturesque fashion.Cinematographer Chayse Irvin is clearly something of a virtuoso, thriving inboth bright panoramas and shadowy corners. Pallaoro’s imagery sometimessuggests Kubrick, sometimesTerrence Malick, and sometimes other AmericanClassics: there’s one shot near the end that practically screams “Christina’sWorld.” And while it should be clear that my own feeling is that he lays thisstuff on a little thick, to his credit he never wanders into fashion magazineterritory. By the same token, his good fine art taste also seems to restricthim a bit. As the story went on in its deliberate way, the rage that builds incertain characters is kept at a remove; Pallaoro seems too polite, toodiscreet, to bring the galvanic kind of emphasis the story seems to call for.Another director that came to mind as I watched was Mexico’sCarlos Reygadas, afellow who, it occurred to me, would take to the fatalism of the material witha relish. Pallaoro can’t seem to muster any such thing, and so at the end, Ifelt suspended between “so beautiful” and “so what.” (Sorry for lifting yourphrase,Paul Simon.) Advertisement