The Beatles song “Eleanor Rigby” famously imagines itseponymous heroine as a solitary spinster who attends a wedding wearing “a facethat she keeps in a jar by the door,” then dies and is given a funeral to which“nobody came.” “All the lonely people, where do they all come from?” the chorusmournfully wonders.” “All the lonely people, where do they all belong?” The British drama “Still Life” by writer-director UbertoPasolini is pretty much an exact cinematic equivalent ofPaul McCartney’sdowncast lament. It begins with three funerals, of different faiths, at whichthere is only one mourner, the same in each case. He is John May (Eddie Marsan), ashort, square-ish fortysomething who not only attends such funerals but alsoarranges them and even writes their eulogies. Advertisement This is his job, but it has also become something of amission, even an obsession. May works for a council in south London where he’sassigned to arrange for the burials of people who die without any relatives orintimates to assist with their passage out of this life. Much like EleanorRigby. There seems to be a steady stream of such folk, since May has beenemployed for over two decades. And the government evidently has the largesse toallow him to pay for proper funerals, each with a clergyman, music, a goodcasket and a decent burial. Since they have no one else, May regards the deceased as“his” people, and he goes to extra lengths to serve them well. Researchingtheir lives as exhaustively as limited time and resources allow, he constructsthe most favorable life narrative for each that he can, and this becomes theperson’s eulogy. He also tracks down any lost relatives or friends and tries topersuade them to attend the last rites – usually without success. Otherwise, May’s life appears to be neat, clean and empty.He’s like an amalgam of the protagonists ofHenry James’ “The Altar of theDead” and T.S. Eliot’s “Prufrock” – devoted to his dear departed while living alife measured out with “coffee spoons.” After establishing May’s routines and rituals, the storytake a turn when a young, officious new superior calls him in and tells his jobis being consolidated out of existence. Apparently the bureaucracy would ratherpay for simple cremations rather than funerals, and has no need for hispersonal attention to detail. Stunned that he’s only got a few days left beingpaid to pursue the quest that’s occupied his adult life, May finds a last casethat he gradually begins treating as a grand cause. Advertisement As it happens, the deceased lived across from him,suggesting how modern city life divides communities into solitary cells. Theman’s body had not been discovered for many days, but May enters his shabby,smelly apartment and, with his usual meticulousness, begins picking through hisbelongings (partly filled photo album, old LPs), looking for clues. The portrait that emerges is one of a drunken, abusive,ne’er-do-well, just the kind of guy who would die alone and unlamented. Butthat doesn’t deter May, who puts his usual detective skills into high gear andtracks down a number of people who knew the man. They’re generally not happy tohear his name mentioned. A woman who runs a seaside fish and chips shop, who washis girlfriend two decades before, recalls him as violent and impetuous. Twohomeless men, who served with him in the Falklands War, say much the same butallow that his roughness was useful in training for combat. May also finds the man’s grown-up daughter (Joanna Froggat)working in a rural center for rescued dogs – a job that signals something ofher feelings of abandonment. The last time she saw her dad, she says, he was inprison and punched out a guard. She’s grateful to May that he’s let her know thesad news, but she doesn’t want any further involvement with her father…untilshe changes her mind and calls the messenger back, sparking a connectionbetween two lonely people that propels the tale’s third act toward an ending inwhich sudden surprise is followed by a bit of magical-realist uplift. The film’s title says lots about its mood and style, whichis heavy on becalmed views of rooms, objects like an apple peel and officeutensils, and May’s glazed gazes at nothing in particular. Pasolini (formerly aproducer of films including “The Big Monty”) says this approach is indebted tolate Ozu, but it’s also one shared by many European art films of thedownbeat-humanist sort. In terms of atmosphere, it conveys a kind of drabordinariness that, for some reason, in English films, comes across asexceptionally dull, constricted and depressing. Advertisement The nuanced particularity pays its best dividends in theexacting, flavorful performances, especially Marsan’s Mr. May, who has a facelike a squashed grapefruit, with doleful eyes, a looming nose and a stretchedmouth that only really smiles when he meets his last client’s daughter. Whetherfilmgoers want to join his journey will be a matter of individual taste. Thoughthe film’s lachrymose gist is conveyed with subtlety and insight into therigors of loneliness and mortality, it is lachrymose nonetheless. Fans of“Eleanor Rigby,” in any case, should not miss it.