All the way back in 1982, a smartass post-punk band fromMilwaukee called Couch Flambeau did a song called “Mobile Home” in which thesinger expressed his desire to purchase same, then boasted “gonna buy a brokenBig Wheel/to put in front of my mobile home.” A cruel line, but funny, becauseit seemed true. At the time. I mention this because the line went through myhead just now, watching my first new movie of 2015, “Little Accidents,” a dramaset in American coal country which, in going about its business establishingplace, contains several shots not quite of a broken Big Wheel sitting outsideof a mobile home, but close enough. Advertisement Is this a case of “plus ça change” etc. with respect to themores and décor prerogatives of the rural poor of the U.S., or an indication ofthe paucity of imagination on the part of the filmmakers? A little of both, Iguess. Written and directed bySara Colangelo, here making her feature debut,“Little Accidents” is quietly earnest, handsomely produced, and toodramatically inert and dogged by the commonplace to make much of an impactbeyond conveying the dreariness (as opposed to the dread) of life in acoal-mining town. Shot in one such actual town in West Virginia, the filmpresents numerous striking images of natural beauty (Rachel Morrisonis thecinematographer), which don’t rouse the movie from its narrative torpor. “LittleAccidents” begins by following miner Amos Jenkins (Boyd Holbrook) as he ridesthe mine railway into another day on the job, all good old boy exuberance. Themovie then cuts away to some time later: Amos is the only survivor of anaccident that killed ten men, and he sits, cowed and cloudy, in front ofquestioners, testifying mainly to his lack of any memory of the events thatwounded him. It’s soon clear there’s much at stake, and that Amos isunder all sorts of pressure. The movie loops in a narrative involving theteenage son of one of the mine’s victims, another teenager who belongs to oneof the mine’s supervisors, and the lonely, soon traumatized wife of thesupervisor, Diane (Elizabeth Banks). In a woodland conflict, the mine disasteryields another victim, albeit indirectly and, again, by accident. A child ispresumed missing, but the audience, and another child, share the terribleknowledge that he is not. And so things turn for the worse. You might not guess that two of the most tormented adultcharacters in this scheme wind up romantically involved, but if you don’t, in away my hat is off to you. While the movie does all of its characters the favorof not condescending to them or their perspectives—a Bible Study group thatmight have been played for snickers is accorded, at the very least, a neutralview—its strategy of withholding both particular characters and informationabout their actions (the mine supervisor played byJosh Lucasdoesn’t show upuntil a half hour or so into the picture), while perhaps looking attractively, insinuatingly oblique on paper, has on the screen the general effect ofblunting potential emotional impact. While the players do their levelbest—lead-for-all-intents-and-purposes Holbrook over-indicates like crazy in hisearly scenes but eventually settles into his role enough to generate somesympathy—the clichéd solemnity of almost each and every scene (the music scorebyMarcelo Zarvos, replete with single piano and violin notes that strive intheir perfect isolation to connote extreme poignancy) and the predictability ofthe action put me in a bind; as much as my conscience wanted to empathize withthe characters, my taste only wanted to be rid of them. Advertisement