Anurag Kashyap's 2012 film “Gangs of Wasseypur” is beingreleased in North America for the first time—its first half in theaters now,its second to be added next week—andwith it the opportunity to see one of the most ambitious gangster films evermade, and quite possibly one of the best. Hyperbole is in no shortage in modernfilm criticism, but please put that grain ofsalt down. It is not necessary. “Gangs of Wasseypur”isthat good, andAnurag Kashyap will forever be a major filmmaker on the sole basis of makingit. Advertisement The film begins with a continuous four-minute take thatstarts on a television screen showing a Hindi soap opera and pulls out into thestreet, where armed gangs are furiously searching for a man, gunning downanyone in their path who might be his ally. They bomb his house. When thepressure becomes too much to bear, there is a cut, and with it, an exhale. Butthere is no loss of tension. The film powers forward, relentless, for the nextfive hours. Yes, “Gangs of Wasseypur” is over five hours long, which iswhy it has almost always been exhibited in two parts (Lincoln Center isscreening it in one part). This may, unavoidably, intimidate some. There is noother way to tell a story of this magnitude, covering eight decades of life inthe town of Wasseypur in northeast India, examining the intersection oforganized crime, capitalism, and civic government in as exacting detail as itdoes, in any less time. This is without even mentioning the scale on whichKashyap examines the futility of revenge over three whole generations, whichis rendered all the more tragic by the film's sheer scale. After the opening sequence, set in the present day, thestory jumps back to 1941. With the aid of narration—voiced by a supportingcharacter who plays a crucial role in the story over the years—the history ofWasseypur is laid forth. It is a key coal mining center in its region, and thisbecomes the focus of a rivalry between three parties: industrialist RamadhirSingh, who takes control of the mines after India's independence from Britain;the Qureshi, who traditionally controlled Wasseypur; and Shahid Khan, a minerwho was banished by the Qureshi for robbing trains, only to return to Wasseypurunder false pretenses with the intent of stealing the mines from Singh. Thelattice of interlocking conflicts and allegiances beginning with this dynamicend up lasting all the way to the 21stcentury, and never at anypoint cease to fascinate. The key to this is the way Kashyap builds his overall storyout of the accumulation of smaller stories. An entire life can be extrapolatedfrom almost every character who appears over the course of the film, andseveral of them could easily have entire movies in which their storyline is thecenter. Yet at no point is there an issue of diffuse focus, or of misplacedimportance. The performances, across the board, are magnificent, with specialcredit to be paid to Khan family matriarch Richa Chaddha, and her second son(and star of the second part of the film) played byNawazuddin Siddiqui, whosework and character arc in “Gangs of Wasseypur” defy superlative. Everything isexactly as it should be, storywise, and the total is an astonishing feat,worthy of discussion alongside Coppola's first two “Godfather” films, orLeone's “Once Upon a Time in America.” Advertisement In filmmaking terms, Kashyap seems at first glanceto be more modest, shooting in a largely naturalistic mode, but the action isalways impeccably blocked, especially in the longer takes within actionsequences. While references to other movies (Eli Wallach's classic ode togunfight pragmatism, “When you have to shoot, shoot. Don't talk,” from “TheGood, The Bad, and The Ugly” is alluded to, as are countless references tomultiple generations of Bollywood films and heroes, with the year 1995announced not with a title card but by seemingly everyone in the movie havingjust seen “Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge”) are almost entirely in dialogue, thereis one notable departure at the very end of the movie, with a pair of—mildspoiler—climactic deaths filmed in an extremely artificial way, as if toindicate that the only way stories of this kind end is through the artifice ofcinema. In life, they continue ever onward, a point Kashyap subtly indicateswith his camera.