"Amira &Sam" tells the "unlikely" story of the romance between a UnitedStates Army Special Forces vet who served in Iraq and an undocumented immigrantfrom that country. What's important here is that writer/directorSean Mullin(his feature debut) keeps quotation marks around the perceived"unlikeliness" of their romance. There is ultimately nothing strangeor conflicted about their connection. It develops at its own, natural pace.It's simply the story of two people who learn about each other's life andinterests, and out of that, mutual affection grows. Advertisement There are kinksin its progression, of course. Sam (Martin Starr) and Amira (Dina Shihabi) havea rough start upon their first meeting. He's visiting Amira's uncle Bassam(Laith Nakli), who served as a translator for Sam's unit in Iraq and whom Samsaved during an ambush. Amira's brother was killed in the crossfire during adifferent attack, and she sees Sam as just another American soldier who, in hermind, is as responsible for her brother's death as the soldiers who were therethat day. It's a pretty bighurdle, but Mullin sees personal connections as indeterminable feelings that gobeyond politics and history. Bassam explains how Sam saved his life, upheld apromise to see him again, and presented him with the star from a burnt Americanflag he tried to save during the firefight. Whatever prejudices Amirapreviously had slowly dissipate—at least for this man—as she starts to learnthat he's not representative of American foreign policy or the soldiers whocouldn't protect her brother. He's just a decent guy. With her internalobstacles to overcome, Amira is the more intriguing part of the pair, althoughMullin's screenplay is far more interested in Sam. His problems are entirelyexternal and more than a bit contrived. They beginhonestly enough. Sam is fired from a security job at an apartment buildingafter locking a group of disrespectful, drunk residents in an elevator. Hiscousin Charlie (Paul Wesley), a hedge fund manager who helped him get the job,offers Sam a chance to woo a prospective investor—a Vietnam vet named Jack(David Rasche)—with the promise of a hefty commission if themultimillion-dollar deal goes well. The movie is set during the summer of 2008,mere months before the financial crisis. As one would expect with such a loadedsetting, there is an obvious aura of corruption in this subplot. Advertisement All of the thingsMullin avoids in the romance between Sam and Amira are present in thesescenes—the heavy-handed political statements (Jack decries the "cesspoolof self-interest" that is the American economic system), the transparentuse of characters to represent concepts instead of existing as actual people(Charlie says he's merely a "prisoner" of free-market capitalism),and an overall sense that Mullin wants to say something Important. The romanceitself seems rife with opportunities to do something similar. After all, Samand Amira are forced into close quarters after she is arrested for sellingbootleg DVDs and flees a police officer, which leads to her going into hidingto avoid deportation. Whatever Mullin could or may want to say about thepolitics of this issue is left off the table. It's merely a plot point. If wewant to connect the movie and a critique of immigration policy, that isentirely on us. Their story isbetter for the absence of sweeping political declarations. It's uncomfortablebut tender in the way of any burgeoning romance. The two characters talk as ifthere isn't a cloud of impending doom hanging over them. It culminates in ascene in which the two—both of them stubbornly wanting to sleep on thefloor—share the bed in Sam's studio apartment. It's pillow talk but without thesex. They laugh, share some secret information about their lives (Sam wants tobecome a stand-up comedian, and Amira says or jokes that she likes to punchpeople who deserve it), and test out the waters of getting physical with eachother (which turns into each playfully licking the other's cheek). Almost theentirety of their relationship feels as unencumbered with petty, artificialconflict as the characters are in that scene. Mullin's only obvious attempt toaddress the social and ethnic distinctions between these characters comesduring a late scene at Charlie's engagement party, where the charactersencounter an onslaught of casual and blatant bigotry. A random woman asksAmira, referring to her hijab, "Do they make you wear that thing?"One of Charlie's co-workers (Ross Marquand) thinks she looks like Aladdin'sgirlfriend. Sam's uncle (Mark Elliot Wilson) goes on a rant linking all Arabsto the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. Of course, this aspect of their relationship,sadly, needs to be addressed, but it comes so late and with such bluntness thatit feels forced. Advertisement There's justenough of that feeling throughout the movie to undermine the more naturalelements of the love story. That's especially true of the subplot of Sam'sprofessional involvement with Charlie, which takes up so much of the movie thatAmira and what she's facing seem like an afterthought. When the eponymouscouple is together, "Amira & Sam" is an earnest and considerateexamination of two people falling in love, but the movie lacks certainty whenhandling these characters separately.