Inpreparing to review the new thriller "The Loft," I was surprised todiscover that not only is it a remake of a 2008 film that was an enormous hitin its native Belgium, it was previously remade in the Netherlands in2010--indeed, the film's director, Erik van Looy, not only helmed the originalbut also worked on the Dutch version as well. I am not surprised by the factthat this story has been told three times in such a short period of time--hey,the beloved classic "The Maltese Falcon" was actually the thirdcinematic go-around for that tale in less than a decade. No, what surprises meis that I would have thought that by this third stab at this particularnarrative, all of the implausibilities and idiocies would have been ironed out.Alas, this long-delayed would-be erotic thriller is a shabby bore that promisesviewers any number of kinky thrills and then proceeds to deflate thoseexpectations. Advertisement The filmcenters around five pals—smarmy architect Vincent (Karl Urban), nice guypsychiatrist Chris (James Marsden), quiet nebbish Luke (Wentworth Miller),loudmouth horndog Marty (Eric Stonestreet) and borderline psychopath/Chris'shalf-brother Philip (Matthias Schoenaerts, another refugee from the Belgianoriginal)—who are in marriages that are not particularly satisfying to themfor various reasons. Assuming that they all desperately want to cheat on theirwives but are leery of doing for fear of getting caught, Vincent hits upon theperfect solution—the five of them will quietly purchase a spacious loftapartment in a new building that he has designed and use it for their assignations.There are any number of reasons to instantly reject such a proposal as beingimpractical at best and idiotic at worst (Who washes the sheets? What happensif two of them show up at the same time? What if one of them threatens toblackmail the others in order to get out of his turn doing the dishes?) butnone of them occur to them and they all sign on. For awhile, all goes well and even the initially reluctant Chris joins in the fun aswell once he meets the sexy Anne (Rachael Taylor), the sister of a formerpatient who committed suicide. However, it is all fun and games until someonedies a horrible death, and indeed, one morning, Luke arrives to discover thecorpse of a strange blonde handcuffed to the bed with her wrist slashed. Afterthe others arrive, it becomes apparent that since there are only five keys tothe loft, one of them has to have been at least somewhat involved in the girl'sdeath. While they try to piece together what happened and who is hiding what,we are treated to a series of extended flashbacks that reveal more about theguys, their increasingly twisted relationships with their women and with eachother, the identity of the suicide blonde and the circumstances that presumablyled at least one of them to commit murder. In otherwords, "The Loft" is like a combination of "The Apartment,"minus the caustic wit and interesting characters, "Reservoir Dogs"sans the powerful sexual tension and a below-average episode of "Law &Order SVU." Actually, that description makes it sound far more interestingthan it actually is. Having never seen the first two versions, I cannot say forcertain how this one compares to its ancestors but either something gothorribly lost in the translation or it the Belgians and Dutch are a lot moreforgiving when it comes to substandard thrillers. The plot is a convoluted messthat veers back and forth in time with little rhyme or reason and is neverclose to being as smart and clever as it thinks it is. Screenwriter WesleyStrick completely drops the ball here—the dialogue is trite, the charactersare paper-thin and universally unpleasant and uninteresting and the denouementis borderline laughable in its attempts to tie all of the plot lines togetherwhile still yanking the rug out from under viewers. Advertisement As for van Looy (whose 2003 thriller "TheMemory of a Killer" is as good as this one is awful), he appears to be onautopilot the entire time, presumably out of sheer boredom, because there isnot one cinematically interesting moment to be had. The actors are pretty muchcoasting throughout as well for the most part with as little energy andenthusiasm as possible. The one exception to this is Eric Stonestreet, whoseems so thrilled at the prospect of playing a character so different from the onehe portrays on "Modern Family" that he overplays every scene to thepoint where you may find yourself involuntarily flinching every time he comeson screen. As for the women, theyare pretty much depicted throughout as either shrews or prostitutes and thefilm's ultimate attitude towards them can probably be divined by the fact thatthe  two main actresses—Taylor andIsabel Lucas—are refugees from the "Transfomers" franchise. "TheLoft" is a film that seems to have been designed specifically to appear inempty theaters in the dead of January. It is a total wash as a thriller, it istoo clunky and simplistic to work as a mystery, it has no insights into malepsychology that could make it work as a drama and its erotic quotient is sominimal that it could only be a turn-on to people who consider HGTV to bepornography. The best thing about it is that it is so utterly disposable thatit will quickly be forgotten and everyone involved can go on to presumablybetter things.