The status of actorNicolas Cage’s career has nowdefinitively shifted from its entertainingly eccentric phase into its genuinelybefuddling and perhaps sad phase. Fans of the actor and followers of thetabloids are aware of his unpleasant encounters with the federal governmentwith respect to taxes. So we, or they, know, or can infer, the reasons behindsome of his more unusual career choices, such as his recent appearance in areboot, such as it is, of the “Left Behind” film adaptations. Thing is, maybewe could be wrong about our inference. I once interviewed a very well-respectedcharacter actor who was in the middle of a run of undistinguished films, andasked him—wording the question rather politely, mind you—what such a fantasticactor with no tax issues that I knew of was doing in all this dreck, and hisanswer was pretty simple: he’s an actor. He likes to work. If someone offershim work and he’s available, he does it. Film fans tend to forget that forevery role an actor wins in a movie, in his or her backstory there are tens,and maybe hundreds, of roles that he or she didn’t get. Advertisement By now you may be wondering why I’m musing on such matters rather than discussing the motion picture at hand. Your inference in this caseis probably one hundred percent correct. Directed by stunt expertNick Powell,here making his feature debut in this category, and written byJames Dormer,“Outcast” begins with some hot Crusades action, with Western dudes in armorslicing up non-Western dudes; a title tells us we’re in the 12th Century in “The Middle East.” Why bother viewers with a level of detail theywon’t need, right? Or maybe it’s that the filmmakers themselves neither knownor care. Seems a combination of both, maybe. Cage andHayden Christensenplaywarriors who are, for their own reasons, distinctly embittered by all thiscrusading stuff. “Haven’t you had enough of this killing for hypocritepriests?” Cage’s Gallain asks Christensen’s Jacob, in a peculiar (of course)near-British accent. The exchange continues as swords clang, and Jacobchastises Gallain: “You’re not the man you once were.” “None of us are,” is theanswer. A little later, we are in the throne room of an emperorsomewhere in Asia proper, and the clichés continue. A meek young prince is toldhe will be the next emperor, but insists he doesn’t want to, because the peoplewill not accept him. “Your brother is a great warrior,” the aged emperorcounters…“but…” There’s always a but. Cue Great Warrior Brother, Shing (AndyOn), who bellows “The throne is my birthright!” stabs dad, and chases babybrother and baby sister. Holing up in an inn, baby brother and sister are waylaidby Shing’s men, only to be rescued by a mysterious and drunk Western warrior. Not Cage, it turns out. No, it’s poor Hayden Christensen whoplays the guy who’s going to save the two feckless Asians from the brutalrelative, but you won’t think “poor Hayden Christensen” for long, because hisperformance is so lifeless you’re likely to start resentingGeorge Lucasallover again, again. Will Cage show up again? Well, of course he will, happily,or sadly, enough, and he does bring his own particular brand of life to theproceedings, as when he tells Christensen “I should have left you for crowmeat.” If you’re still watching the movie by this time, if you even startedwatching it in the first place, I can only imagine that you, like me, have someprofessional obligation to do so. Aside from providing an object lesson in howChinese film financing forces some rather remarkable storyline convolutionsinto generic international action pictures, “Outcast” provides nothing ofinterest. There are hundreds of good to great action movies out there that youcould watch instead of this. Some of them star Nicolas Cage. You’d be betteroff. Trust me. Advertisement