Borrowing its title from one fed-up newscaster’s furiousdeclaration in “Network,”Andrew Napier’s “Mad as Hell” does indeed play like areal-life update ofSidney Lumetand Paddy Chayevsky’s skewering of TV news.Except that here the main personality is notably calmer, if no less passionate,and his personal story also touches on a larger and very significant one: thebattle between old and new media and how it relates to journalists’ ability to“speak truth to power” in an age of all-pervasive corporate control. Advertisement Nowhere in the film is its subject,Cenk Uygur, the founderand main mouthpiece of a YouTube show titled The Young Turks (TYT), called ajournalist, but he does function as such, even if his game is commenting on thenews rather than doing reportorial spadework. Being innocent of much televisionand online content, this reviewer had never heard of Uygur or TYT but found thefilm’s account of them engaging enough to leave him intrigued and impressedwith both. Director Napier comes at his subject from an insider’sangle. After moving to Los Angeles a few years back, the aspiring filmmaker gota job at TYT and later proposed making a documentary about his boss to the manhimself. Uygur agreed and promised Napier complete editorial control of thesort that guarantees his own, liberally employed freedom of expression. Thusbegan a five-year filmmaking odyssey that reached a dramatic climax of sortswhen Uygur had encounters with the mainstream media that tested his principlesand autonomy. Raised in a Turkish immigrant family, Uygur was aggressivelyopinionated from an early age, according to friends who, sometimes withquasi-pained expressions, recall his domineering ways in any and alldiscussions. From the first time he made it onto TV, he knew he wanted a careerbraying his thoughts at the public. So, after graduating from law school andquickly quitting the first cushy law job that came his way, he launched himselfonto the airwaves via a public access channel in northern Virginia. The pay waszilch but the satisfactions, it seems, were formidable. From there he moved to Florida, where he proved to be aterrible on-air reporter, sweaty and obnoxious. Undeterred, he moved to L.A.and landed a Sirius radio show, where his opinion-mongering proved to be a goodfit. To this point, Uygur’s beliefs made him another angryconservative/Republican shouter, a baby Beck or Limbaugh. However, after theU.S. invasion of Iraq and the resulting reports of American torturers, hejumped the ideological fence and became a liberal/progressive – without turningdown the volume, of course. Advertisement “Mad as Hell” does not spend much time on Uygur’s politicalviews, either before or after his conversion, and that’s just as well: only afew soundbites will suffice to let most viewers know where he stands. His moreimportant views concern the media. Offered lots of money just to appear onradio and avoid TV, he turned down the cash – one of numerous instances of“burning bridges,” which he claims as a specialty – and landed in what for himbecame the ideal video perch: TYT, an Internet show that allowed him to sayexactlywhat he wanted on any topic thatengaged him. That freedom proved a heady brew not just for him but forYouTube viewers who, struck by the show’s honesty and lack of constraint, keptcoming back in larger and larger numbers. Since its launch a decade ago, TYThas had over two billion hits. But with success came a fork in the path. Uygur’s renownmeant that he was offered gigs on MSNBC andAl Gore’s Current TV. The latterseems to have been a happy alliance, but it ended when Gore sold the network toAl-Jazeera English. The former is a more interesting story. Uygur seems to havedone a good job substituting for various MSNBC hosts, but after he finallylanded the coveted 6pm slot for himself, the network pulled him. The reason, hebelieves, is that he was too hard on President Obama. Fox News belongs to theRepublican Party and MSNBC to the Democrats, he says, which is why you soseldom hear genuinely progressive critiques of the latter: corporate mediasimply do not allow truly independent voices. Uygur, who is seen taking part in the Occupy Wall Streetdemonstrations of a couple of years back, makes a good case that Internet newsand opinion outlets are filling a need that old media, unfortunately, simplycan’t. Whether that means the truths they speak to power will eventually make adifference – Uygur says government officials “don’t give a crap” – remains tobe seen. But his pioneering efforts certainly remind us how controlled most“news” in this country is, and how much alternatives to them are needed. Advertisement