Ryan Reynoldsis having a bit of a moment, even if too fewpeople are seeing it. Taken together, his work inAtom Egoyan’s “The Captive,”Anna Boden&Ryan Fleck’s Sundance hit “Mississippi Grind” and, releasingOn Demand and in limited theatrical release today,Marjane Satrapi’s “The Voices,” represent a renaissance for the actor, who is clearly taking roles thatinterest him instead of the biggest paychecks or most likely shots at stardom.I’ve always liked Reynolds for the most part, but he does his best work yet here inSatrapi’s odd, pitch-black comedy about a man who talks to his dog and cat. Andthey talk back. Advertisement The opening act of “The Voices” has echoes of Joel and EthanCoen’s sarcastic looks at small town life as we meet the relentlessly upbeatJerry (Reynolds), a worker at a toy factory at which he must dress in pinkevery day. He’s as happy as they come, gleefully planning an office party andover the moon at the fact that it will include a conga line to "Sing a Happy Song" like a cheesywedding. It’s only when he returns to his rundown abode that his cat Mr.Whiskers sets him straight—“The onlyreason they don’t fire your ass is because you’re so hopelessly pathetic youamuse them.” Like so many filmmakers before her, Satrapi is exploring thedark underbelly and murderous intent of even the most cheerful, seemingly happypeople in society. Jerry needs to be on drugs to function normally. So says Dr.Warren (an underutilizedJacki Weaver), with whom he regularly meets. Withouthis anti-psychotic medication, Jerry talks to his dog Bosco and his cat Mr.Whiskers (who are both perfectly voiced by Reynolds himself…which makes atwisted sense if you think about it). Bosco is the supportive angel to his loyal masterwhile Mr. Whiskers is the devil on Jerry’s shoulder, encouraging bad behaviorand denigrating every attempt at normalcy. Jerry acts on his romantic interest in a gorgeous co-worker namedFiona (Gemma Arterton), asking her out for Chinese food. After she stands himup, he happens upon her in the road, offering her a ride home. A car crashleads to an accidental death, and before you know it Fiona’s head is in Jerry’sfridge. And it’s still talking to him. Bosco tries to convince Jerry that he’sstill a good guy but Fiona wants a friend in the lonely refrigerator. Mr.Whiskers thinks that’s a grand idea. There’s a great sequence about halfway through “The Voices”in which Jerry gives in and takes his meds as ordered, waking up to a worldthat he doesn’t want to live in. He has no friends without the voices in hishead/pets. And the talking head of Fiona in his dementia is much more appealingthan the reality of a decomposing head in his refrigerator. “The Voices” is the tale of a man whocan’t look back, really since the death of his mother, or he’llreallygo insane. Once you start talkingto your pets, there’s no turning around. Advertisement And that’s what Reynolds truly captures: the idea that Jerryis a man forced down a road of violence by things that he cannot control. He isa unique serial killer in that he so wants normalcy, companionship andhappiness. The joy in Reynolds’ eyes when he is shown human kindness by anotherco-worker (the always-greatAnna Kendrick) is as key to this performance as theinsanity that other actors would have focused on and turned into scenery chewing. Reynoldsuses his natural charm and good looks to great effect here. He’s the boy nextdoor; the smiling co-worker who’s both easy to root for and remarkably annoyingin the same breath. It may be hard to believe until you see it but this is a trulysubtle take on a man who has conversations with his pets. It’s really greatwork.