“Hope for the best, expect the worst.”Mel Brookspopularized that adage in a funny song he co-wrote for one of his most amusingfilms, the relatively obscure 1970 “The Twelve Chairs.” It’s a useful sentimentin general, but, for the film reviewer, something that applies most particularlyin the first two months of the new year, which, at least as far as studioproduct is concerned, represent a dumping ground for problematic product orjust plain unmarketable dreck. Given the fact that its U.S. release date was moved notonce, but twice, and that it now finds itself occupying a date in theaforementioned dumping ground, one might expect the Sergei-Bodrov-directed“Seventh Son,” a medieval fantasy tale with a strong Young Adult stress in itsplotting (not surprising, as it’s based on a YA book, the first of three so farfeaturing the same characters, as is the thing these days) to be pretty bad.But, surprise! One doesn’t want to damn the movie with faint praise by saying“it’s not that bad,” but that’s kind of the most objectively accuratedescription of it, in all honesty. Subjectively, though? This critic, who’s anunabashed fan of the myth-mash-up monster movies of the ‘50s and ‘60s thatfeatured a plethora of stop-motion-animated monsters and such, found himselfrather enjoying more than a few portions of the movie, which indeed features aplethora of computer-animated monsters that at least seem to have been inspiredby the work of such old-school tech masters as Ray Harryhausen. Advertisement Another attraction is that the adult leads of the pictureareJeff BridgesandJulianne Moore. Bridges plays a righteous witch-hunting“spook” (he’s also a Knight of some secret sacred order or another) whileMoore plays a near-omnipotent witch who’s going to use theonce-in-a-hundred-years “night of the blood moon” to make herself 100%omnipotent. Of course these two characters have a romantic back-story. Ofcourse they do. Since every other film critic writing about this movie is goingto make some kind of “I didn’t think the sequel to ‘Big Lebowski’ would be THISweird” joke, I’ll spare you my effort. It is, however, a pleasure to see TheDude and Maude in a clinch once more, even if Bridges’ mumble-mouthed, grizzledhero is more like his “True Grit” Rooster Coburn crossed withRichard Harrisin“Camelot,” had Richard Harris been 70 in “Camelot.” In other words, it’s a trulyeccentric performance, and why not. As for Moore, she looks gorgeous andslithers with enough menace that you can almost convince yourself that herdragon-morph isn't a special effect. The YA aspect is provided by the spook’s new apprentice, thetitular seventh sonTom Ward(Ben Barnes), who, of course, falls for a teen witch(half-witch, more accurately; the condition of half-witchdom plays a crucialalbeit entirely predictable part in the plot) who’s the daughter of Moore’sright-hand witch. The standard complications ensue, but they’re pretty easy togloss over if you just wanna get off on the fellas battling man-bears andmulti-armed swordsman and a bald-pated guy who can make ax-blades out of hishands when he’s NOT being a dragon. At such points, and particularly during acliff-diving-and-waterfall scene in which Tom goes up against a very stubborngiant, “Seventh Son” builds up the goofy charm of an old-school Saturdayafternoon matinee. The tech credits, as they call them in the trades, tell youwhy: the effects were designed by original “Star Wars” guy John Dykstra, andthe sumptuous art direction is by Dante Ferretti, who’s worked magic for thelikes of Fellini, De Palma, and Scorsese.Olivia WilliamsandDjimon Hounsouare welcome components in the supporting cast, and the whole thing is over anddone with in a good deal less than two hours. A towering cinematic achievement?Hardly. But not entirely unsatisfying if this particular genre itch needs somescratching.