Art isn’t easy. That’s the main “takeaway” from this briskand engaging documentary, directed byJody Lee Lipes. After a few text notesexplaining who the main players are—they are the New York City Ballet and adancer/choreographer namedJustin Peck—“Ballet 422” chronicles the creation ofthe four-hundred-and-twenty-second original ballet mounted by the company, fromits conception to opening night. As in the films of documentarians David andAlbert MayslesandFrederick Wiseman, this true-life chronicle eschews both narration andon-camera interview. Justin Peck does not explain the premise of his ballet,his reason for choosing the music (“Sinfonietta La Jolla” by 20th-centurycomposer Bohuslav Martinu), or any such thing; instead, Lipes’ cameras show himthinking and working in an empty rehearsal room with a boom box, or in hisquiet walk-up apartment. Soon he’s laying out moves for his lead dancers,conferring with the costume designers, lighting directors, the orchestraconductors, and so on. Advertisement The process as chronicled by Lipes is relatively drama-freebut extremely labor intensive. Nobody’s a diva, voices are never raised,there’s no last-minute crisis. Which isn’t to say there isn’t tension, orirony, or interest. Part of the magic of the dance, if you’re a fan of it (it’snot really my cup of tea, but you can’t like EVERYTHING), is the illusion thatthe work you’re watching has just been conjured out of thin air, and all of themembers of the team creating Peck’s ballet are master illusionists. But they’realso people with jobs, and the movie does an excellent job of showing thecommonplace workaday atmosphere that is, in fact, a big part of that businesswe call show. Peck is quiet, conscientious, dedicated, and well-mannered,which is in pretty stark contrast to Brock Enright, the subject of Lipes’ 2009film “Good Times Will Never Be The Same,” which depicted Enright generally being the worst person in the world, and ended withthe nightmare vision of his actually spawning. But Lipes also depicted Enrightas a guy with a work ethic. So there IS a thematic throughline here,auteurists. The irony of Peck’s position is, while he’s on the rise as achoreographer, as a dancer he’s in a rather more plebian position, whichprovides the movie with a punchline that Lipes neither overstates nor shrugsoff. The movie, which sticks to a relatively rough-and-ready handheld visualstyle for the most part (Lipes’ is largely known for his work as acinematographer; he’s collaborated closely withLena Dunhamand shotJudd Apatow’supcoming “Trainwreck”), ends on a very beautiful and still shot of the site ofthe City Ballet that will remind New York-based viewers of their culturalprivilege, and maybe goad them into taking advantage of it more often. Heck, Iwas thinking maybe of checking out a ballet, even.