Thecurrent box-office sensation "American Sniper" opens with a briefscene showing its main character, rifle at the ready, preparing to gun someonedown before flashing back to a childhood memory of going hunting in the woodswith his father. Coincidentally, the new psychological drama "WhiteRabbit" starts off in much the same way, but quickly goes down a muchdarker path before coming to its grimly inevitable conclusion. The result isone of the bleaker films that you will see anytime soon and while it may not beentirely successful as a whole, it contains enough moments of real power tomake you wish that it worked better than it actually does. Advertisement The filmtells the sad and grim story of Harlon (Nick Krause), an emotionallytraumatized young man growing up in asmall town who finds himself the target of relentless bullying from classmatesand family members alike. As a child, he suffers endless emotional abuse fromhis drunken, drugged-out father (Sam Trammell), and equally relentless teasingfrom his siblings, while his mother cannotmuster the strength to do much of anything about it. In a misguided effort toman Harlon up, his dad takes him and his brother hunting one day and forcesHarlon to kill the titular lagomorph with the shotgun he was given as abirthday present. This only adds to Harlon's inner turmoil and leads to himbeing haunted by visions of the wounded rabbit as well. Yearspass and when we see Harlon again a high school junior, things have clearlygotten worse over time. His dad is still a brute, he is still the target ofbullies and the clear signs of psychosis that he is demonstrating are ignoredby anyone in a position to help him—instead of recognizing that he has aproblem, his school principal coldly informs him that his tanking grades meanthat he will be repeating the 11th grade, adding to his humiliations. He hasexactly one friend, Steven (Ryan Lee), a younger kid who cries all the time andis another bully target as well, and they pass the time in an abandoned factoryshooting things with Harlon's rifle. One day, they even rescue a dog from agarbage bin and take it home with them but without going into detail, that doesnot go well. Things begin to change for the better at lastwith the arrival of Julie (Britt Robertson), the new girl in town with issuesof her own regarding substance abuse. Despite her troubles, she and Harlonstrike up some sparks and in a perfect world, they would be able to cometogether and overcome their respective problems. This is not a perfect world,however, and after a sort-of date goes horribly wrong, Julie disappears for therest of the summer. When she finally does return as school begins in the fall,she has undergone a number of significant changes that are good for her butwhich prove to be devastating to Harlon. Finally, Harlon is attacked by anotherbully and for once fights back in a violent manner, a long-overdue outburstthat finally pushes him over the edge with tragic results. Advertisement Evenwithout that aforementioned opening sequence, the conclusion of "WhiteRabbit" would strike most viewers as inevitable—it is a scenario that wehave seen far too often in the news in the last few years. The film is lessinterested in that than in illustrating in painful detail the things that candrive a person to such an extreme and horrifying act. The screenplay by AnthonyDi Pietro strives to humanize what most would consider to be inhuman by showingHarlon as a deeply troubled young man who should have gotten help a long timeago (he also has delusions that the characters in the violent comic books hereads are talking to him) but was failed by the very support systems he shouldhave been able to count on—family and school. Throw in the thoughtlesscruelties of teenage life and the heartbreak of first love gone bad and he isclearly a powder keg ready to go off, especially with the easy access tofirearms that he has as well. It is an interestingapproach for a film but the results are somewhat mixed. On the one hand, theperformances by Krause (who you may recall as Shailene Woodley's goofy stonerboyfriend in "The Descendants") and Robertson are strong andconvincing and Sam Trammell does some interesting things as the father as well,especially in the moments when he lets down his harsh facade and shows tracesof vulnerability. On the other hand, there are flaws to the screenplay thatdirectorTim McCannis unable to overcome—the stuff involving the visions ofthe bunny are too overtly symbolic for their own good while also invitinginevitable comparisons to "Donnie Darko," another film about atroubled teen haunted by a grim-looking rabbit. I also have a big problemwith the very ending of the film and the way that it awkwardly tries to inserta note of ambiguity to the proceedings that only serves to undercut everythingthat we have seen up until then. The realelephant in the room, so to speak, regarding "White Rabbit" is thatthere has already been one brilliant film examining the various ways in whichoutcast teenagers can be pushed into doing the unthinkable and that is Gus VanSant's stunning "Elephant." This is not to say that another filmcannot be made regarding the same topic but if one is to be made, it either hasto be better or it has to find some kind of new angle from which to approachthe material. "White Rabbit" doesn't quite manage to do this, andwhile it has some good performances and noble intentions, it doesn't reallybring anything new to the conversation and ultimately fails to give viewers anycompelling reason to wade through all the bleakness and misery that it has tooffer. Advertisement