There was a period spanning from the near-mid 1990s to theearly 2000s when a particular kind ofHugh Grantmovie ruled the romanticcomedy world. I don’t mean every single Hugh Grant movie, but quite a few HughGrant movies, mind you. I call them the “Redeemable S**ts” films. That is, theyfeature Mr. Grant at his slickest and most glibly charming, except he’s aterrible-to-awful cad (but not to a Ted Bundy extent, of course, andthankfully) except also thathe can besaved, and it’s only through forced exposure to and interaction with BetterPeople that he can be saved. Advertisement This formula, which arguably reached its commercial and, um,artistic peak with 2002’s “About A Boy” drives Grant’s latest picture, “TheRewrite, “ which was written and directed byMarc Lawrence, who also created2007’s “Music and Lyrics,” an intermittently diverting rom-com co-starring DrewBarrymore that suggested that maybe a breather from the tried and true might bein order. Unfortunately for Grant, that breather consisted of the universallyface-palmed 2009 “Did You Hear About The Morgans” and the misbegotten Wachowskiliterary adaptation “Cloud Atlas” in 2012. “The Rewrite,” in which Grant playsa once-acclaimed, now down-on-his-luck Hollywood screenwriter compelled to headeast and teach a scenario-crafting class at a university in remote, cloudy,fine-cuisine-challenged Binghamton, New York, must have felt as cozy as afavorite sweater to the actor. And indeed, he gives great Hugh Grant cad once he touchesdown in the college town, immediately insultingJane Austento an icydepartment head (Alison Janney) whose specialty is Jane Austen, bedding down acomely student (Bella Heathcote) even before convening his first session,advising a “Star Wars” nerd to join a frat, and dribbling condescension on aplucky single mom who’s going to school to improve herself but who may in facthave some real talent. Given that the aforementioned plucky single mom is played byMarisa Tomei, you have an idea where all this is going to end up. And your ideais likely right, although I have to admit I half-lost a bet with myself I madethirty-five minutes in as to what the big third-act turnaround was going to be.I say “half-lost” because I was correct in terms of the fundamental principlethe storyline was bound to uphold. As predictable as it is, and as sometimescloying as a few of the movie-insider jokes can get (“Reynolds or Gosling?” onestarstruck student breathlessly asks when Grant’s character alludes to a “Ryan”having some interest in a fictitious project he’s bragging about), this movieearned my “almost good” rating of two and a half stars on account of the indeedplucky and winning work of the cast, which also includes J.K. Simmons and ChrisElliott as campus “types.” Each has an amusing moment or three, they all gelpretty well, and they keep the movie watchable as it hops from one sweet-spot-hitting-clichéto another. By no means watch this if you’re looking for a nourishing cinematicexperience. But if your idea of a cozy rom-com is an old Hugh Grant one, thishas some cine-comfort-food-carbs for you.