This sensitive, competently crafted indie picture—agenuinely regional film, it would appear, shot in Ohio and set up through aproduction company based in Grand Rapids, Michigan—is a romance that’s aimingto play David against this week’s ostensible date-movie Goliath, theconsiderably not hearts-and-flowers-redolent “Fifty Shades Of Grey.” Written,directed by, and starringRik Swartzwelder, “Old Fashioned” kind of wears itspremise on its title. Spunky sweet, and smart Amber (Elizabeth Roberts) runsout of gas in the middle of a picture-perfect town in which Clay (Swartzwelder)hones various crafts at an antique store called, yep, “Old Fashioned.” Amber’sresolve, such as it was, was to drive until she ran out of gas and set uphousekeeping wherever that happened to be. Clay helps her set up in a newquaintly furnished apartment but won’t go through the screen door outside. Hehas made a vow, he tells Amber: he won’t be alone in a room with a woman whoisn’t his wife. Amber finds this odd. She finds it odder when she learns he’snot married. Advertisement Clay’s back-story is revealed in dribs and drabs: this isnot quite “The 40-Year-Old Virgin” played straight. The hero was not just acollegiate ladies’ man but a bit of a Joe Francis type as well, producingsalacious videos. Then he changed. “You found Jesus?” Amber asks him. “Morelike…he found me,” Clay responds. So, yes, this “Fifty Shades”-counter-programming isn’tkidding around about being counter-programming. But I would not necessarilycharacterize this effort as a “Christian movie,” not that there’s anythingwrong with that. Swartzwelder does a very thorough and not unbalanced job ofportraying Christian characters trying to function in a social milieu thatdiscourages values such as chastity, modesty, and so on. The movie tries hardnot to be overtly prudish about its point of view, and in many respects itsucceeds—I didn’t even notice until after it was over that it had no swearingin its dialogue. Once Clay explains his chaste theory of courtship to Amber,and Amber agrees to make a go of it, “Old Fashioned” also has no problem owningup to the fact that Clay’s quest to be “a decent person” is in fact more than alittle dogmatic. He’s depicted as defensive and even a little hostile in termsof the ways he stands up for his beliefs. Amber’s more conventionally“free-spirited,” but within that context she’s got more sense than Clay, asdoes Clay’s adorable wise aunt Zella (Dorothy Silver). Near the climax of thepicture, when Amber and Clay argue about the idea of forgiveness, Clay sniffs“You make it sound so easy,” and Amber shoots him down good with “You make itsound impossible.” It’s incredibly rare to see an American movie with aChristian perspective that’s more invested in philosophizing and empathizingthan in eschatological pandering, and for that alone “Old Fashioned” deservescommendation. The movie’s also very well acted and beautifully shot. However, Swartzwelder does tend to lay things on a littlethick. There’s a scene in which a character gets a poster for theFrank Caprafilm “MeetJohn Doe” as a present, which is all well and good, but then theviewer is subjected to a reprise of Gary Cooper’s climactic speech at the endof the film along with a few sensitive dissolves of small-town-America imagery.One of the jarring voices of modernity is a local radio DJ whose showapparently consists entirely of misogynist rants; you know, most local radiostations, even the most talk-oriented, do provide weather reports every now andthen. I mentioned the cinematography before; it’s by David George, and it’slovely, but every now and again Swartzwelder and his editors string togetherseveral of said images for interludes that could be characterized as“Malick-lite.” This speaks, finally, to the movie’s most substantial flaw,which is that with respect to pacing, Swartzwelder, going for “thoughtful,” insteadachieves “glacial.” A romance wants to sweep viewers up, not bog them down.Still, “Old Fashioned” is both unusual and intelligent enough that, despite it not being entirely MY cup of tea, I’m hoping that it’ll succeed at doing atleast a little more than addressing the converted.