Most horror fans will spend the first act of “Wyrmwood: Roadof the Dead” ticking off the boxes of cinematic influences. There’s a littlebit ofGeorge Romero. There’s a gory splash ofPeter Jackson. There’s an angledzoom stolen straight fromSam Raimi. And why does this whole thing remind me of“Mad Max”? While the fine line between homage and plagiarism may be crossed forsome, debut directorKiah Roache-Turnercommits so completely to the insanityof his melting pot concept that he won me over with sheer force.Adam Wingardtold me that he literally dreamed up “The Guest” after watching “Halloween” and“The Terminator” on the same night. One could see Roache-Turner having asimilar vision that led to “Wyrmwood” after a double feature of “Dawn of theDead” and “Mad Max”. Advertisement “This morning I shotmy wife and child with a nail gun.” This is our hero, Barry’s (JayGallagher) first line of dialogue in “Wyrmwood,” which should give you some idea what toexpect tonally. This is splatter, blood and guts zombie mythology, filteredthrough an Australian horror sensibility. Roache-Turner wastes no time gettingto the meat of the matter. One day, everyone who doesn’t have A-Negative bloodtype goes rabid/zombie/infected crazy. These are more the running/screaming/terrifyingzombies ofDanny Boyle’s “28 Days Later” than Romero’s hulking brood. Afterdisposing of wife and child in the aforementioned manner, Barry teams up with apair of fellow survivors to try and track down his sister Brooke (Bianca Bradey),who has been taken prisoner by a paramilitary group already doing experimentsinvolving turned people and those still without a hunger for brains. There’s a streamlined simplicity to “Wyrmwood” that’sadmirable in an era when too many horror movies get cluttered with subplots andcharacters who wander into frame merely to be turned into goo. It’s a roadmovie fueled by a passion for the genre. Horror is a genre in which homage canbe more easily forgiven as a product of relatable love for the same movies.Most zombie movie fans love Boyle, Jackson, Raimi, and Romero, and it’s clearfrom frame one that Roache-Turner is a zombie movie fan himself. We like itwhen our horror movies don’t feel like merchandise as much as the result of apassion for the genre to which we can easily relate. There are also clever twists to the narrative that I won’tspoil but that keep “Wyrmwood” from feeling too much like a rip-off. Thedisco-loving mad scientist who seems to have been eagerly anticipating theundead apocalypse is a fantastic horror creation, and the trajectory of Brooke’scharacter is certainly an unexpected one. In the end though, “Wyrmwood” is notabout narrative. It’s about in-your-face style, the kind where every punch,shot, and kick comes with an accompanying zoom, canted angle, and quick cut.Roache-Turner and cinematographerTim Nagle’s camera is a character, commenting on the insanity of the action as it rises in pitch. It’s alwaysmoving (much like Raimi's and Jackson's) in time with the action, giving the piecea lively, energetic pace despite having not much of a plot when one thinks backon it. Ultimately, the success of “Wyrmwood” comes down toconfidence. Roache-Turner is like the mad doctor in the film itself,experimenting with his genre with a dance in his step and a maniacal smile. He doesn’tapprehensively lift a piece here and there from the films he’s loved, he pusheshis influences to the forefront, spinning, twisting, and owning them in such away that my trepidation at the beginning had turned to anticipation for asequel by the end. Advertisement