Onecomplaint that has always dogged the James Bond franchise over the years is theinescapable fact that while the films seem to be loaded with gratuitous sex andviolence in theory, they never quite manage to show them in any great detail.Obviously, the decision to imply more than display has served the producers formore than a half-century, but can you imagine what it would be like if a Bondfilm were to include all the seamier elements that they have only hinted at inthe past? The early word on the over-the-top action-comedy"Kingsman: The Secret Service" seemed to suggest that it would payhomage to the Bond films of old—the ones made before the series took its turntowards the comparatively serious with the arrival ofDaniel Craig—whileincluding all the Good Parts that had been largely absent in the past. Alas, itseems to have taken its inspiration from one of the lesserRoger Mooreeffortsthan the classic Connerys and the result is a fitfully amusing but increasingtedious and occasionally appalling mess that plays like "The Man with theGolden Gun" with ridiculous amounts of gore and severed limbs on display,though the nipples this time around are not so much superfluous as they aredistressingly nonexistent. Advertisement Based onthe comic book fromMark MillarandDave Gibbons, "Kingsman" posits atop secret British espionage group that is inspired by King Arthur and hisknights (whose names the members appropriate for their code names), based in aseemingly ordinary Savile Row tailor shop and regularly saves the world withoutgetting into all the political mumbo-jumbo that has affected the efforts ofgovernmental spy organizations. Having lost their Lancelot after a one-maneffort to rescue a kidnapped scientist (Mark Hamill), thegroup begins the process of recruiting a replacement and for his nominee, agentHarry "Galahad" Hart (Colin Firth) puts up Gary "Eggsy"Unwin (Taron Egerton), a seemingly ordinary young punk who lives with hismother and her abusive boyfriend and spends his days getting into dumb trouble.However, Eggsy is also the son of a former Kingsman who gave his life to saveHarry and others when he was just a child. Not surprisingly,Eggsy seems out of place among the far more sophisticated othercandidates—only Roxy (Sophie Cookson) shows him any kindness or respect—andKingsman leader Arthur (Michael Caine) expects him to wash out quickly. Alsonot surprisingly, Eggsy manages to last throughout the extended testing processdesigned to winnow the group down to one under the eye of Merlin (Mark Strong).This turns out to be slightly more intense than, say, the executive trainingprogram at Harrods—their barracks are quickly flooded while they sleepone night, there is a group skydive where they are informed that one of them isnot packing a chute only after they make the jump and they are each given apuppy to raise and train. (Eggsy names his pug "JB" and in one of thefilms funnier jokes, we realize just how many fictional super-spies have sharedthose initials over the years.) While allof this is going on, there is, of course, a diabolical plan with globalimplications being hatched by a megalomaniacal madman. Our super-villain isValentine (Samuel L. Jackson), an astoundingly wealthy technological pioneerwhose frustration at his inability to save the planet through the usualchannels has led him to a more sinister approach that involves zapping theminds of the world's population via their cell phones and driving them to killeach other off. Not everyone is to be killed of course and he has also beenrecruiting or kidnapping celebrities and other dignitaries so that they canhelp to forge a better world once the riffraff is gone. If you need any furtherproof that Valentine is mad, consider that he snatches Iggy Azalea butevidently does nothing for Charli XCX even though it was her awesome chorus on"Fancy" that made that song the hit that it was. Advertisement It soundsfun in theory, I guess, and there are some entertaining moments of rudeirreverence here and there but the giddiness gets a bit tedious after a while.The screenplay by directorMatthew Vaughnand longtime collaborator JaneGoldman is kind of like the espionage equivalent of "Scream"—all thecharacters have seen all the James Bond movies and make frequent reference totheir clichés. However, since the Bond movies werenever famous for taking themselves seriously, what we have in "Kingsman"is a film making cartoonish jokes about films that were often cartoonishjokes. Anotherthing that I found off-putting about "Kingsman," oddly enough, isthat it is really, really violent. This may sound like a contradiction of mypreviously stated desire for a more overtly violent Bond film but Vaughn—whoseprevious credits include "Kick-Ass," another savagely brutal adaptationof a Mark Millar comic book—floods the screen with flying limbs and spurtingblood throughout, and, while it is all done in a deliberately cartoonish andnihilistic manner, it is still way too much of a not-that-great thing. On theother hand, the scene in which Valentine tests his weapon on a churchcongregation styled after those Westboro Baptist creeps is reallygrotesque—the idea of hateful monsters literally destroying each other, to thesoundtrack strains of "Free Bird," no less, sounds funny but it goeson for so long and is so brutal (including spearings, shootings and an ax tothe throat) that the joke is lost. Meanwhile, the sex is oddly non-existentother than a not-particularly-amusing bit involving a kidnapped Swedishprincess offering particular sexual favors to Eggsy in exchange for saving theworld and then—Spoiler Alert—making good on her promise. Advertisement "Kingsman:The Secret Service" is not without its compensations. While Egerton isfairly anonymous as the callow would-be Kingsman, Firth, Caine and Strong areclearly having fun with their parts and it is amusing to see Firth dressed tolook like Harry Palmer, the rival Sixties-era British spy once played by Caine.(Jackson, on the other hand, is not quite as successful as the wildly lispingvillain—since the character does not make very much sense, he never quitemanages to get a fix on him.) As he has demonstrated in superior efforts such as"Layer Cake," "Stardust" and "X-Men: First Class", Vaughn is an undeniablystylish filmmaker and while this may not be a good movie, it is certainly agood-looking one. Also, theconcept is promising, and, who knows, maybe when they get around to the nextinstallment of the franchise they are clearly setting up, they will finallyfigure out the right tone and make a better movie as a result. Of course, Isaid the same thing after coming out of "Kick-Ass" and we all knowhow that turned out.