Auteurship, to paraphrase a familiar ad, has its privileges.In the standard Hollywood way of making movies, stories designed to galvanizemillions (often derived from books or comic strips that have already done so)and stars that can “open” films are what get productions funded. In Europe,traditional home of the auteur, however, things are somewhat different: A movielikeJohn Boorman’s “Queen and Country”—with no stars and a story based onthe filmmaker’s own life—can attract financing because the auteur’sdistinctive gifts are considered sufficient to guarantee it audiences andprestige. Advertisement Which is to say that Boorman’s latest is not for folks who’venever heard of John Boorman. But for cinephiles who’ve followed this82-year-old British filmmaker’s long and sometimes eccentric career withinterest and admiration, “Queen and Country” will be a sure winner. A sequel tothe similarly autobiographical “Hope and Glory,” one of Boorman’s most renownedfilms (it received five 1987 Oscar nominations including Picture, Director andScreenplay), the new work is obviously personal yet also entertaining,accessible and beautifully crafted. It begins with a key comic moment from “Hope and Glory,”when the boy protagonist’s school is destroyed by a German bomb during a 1943air raid. When the narrative jumps forward nine years, it finds Bill Rohan(Callum Turner), now 18, and his family still living at the home on a Thamesisland where they went to escape the Blitz. It is a lovely, idyllic place, andslightly surreal since moviemakers from nearby Shepperton Studios pop up toshoot scenes unexpectedly. But the idyll is not to last. Bill receives a noticeto report for his two years of compulsory military service. The first word in the film’s title says lots about theprecise historical moment Boorman evokes. When Bill enters the army, Britainhas a king. During his stint, Elizabeth II takes the throne, with all thesymbolic resonance that entails (Boorman’s English films appreciate themonarchy’s mythic aura). The Korean War is on. Britain is poor, its empire iscrumbling, and the Swinging Sixties are still far, far away. The film’s account of Bill’s military service has ananecdotal air, conveying the daily grind and comic absurdity of life in a drabrural base. Assigned to teach typing to Korea-bound recruits, he starts readingup on the conflict and soon conveys his jaundiced view of the contest betweencapitalism and communism to his students. The effect this has on morale is notsalutary. When one conscript refuses service in Korea citing Bill’s opinionthat it’s an “immoral war,” he is charged with “seducing a soldier from thecourse of his duty” – an indictment containing a verb that’s the source of muchmerriment and jibing. Advertisement Bill’s best friend and fellow typing instructor, a puckishrogue named Percy (Caleb Landry Jones), joins him in a constant low-grade waragainst their superior officer. Sgt. Major Bradley (David Thewliss), afanatical stickler for the rules, is so offended by the two young men’s casualirreverence that he misses no opportunity to bring them up on disciplinarycharges to his superior, the constantly exasperated Major Cross (Richard E. Grant). Percy’s major salvo in the battle against his and Bill’ssuperiors comes after he realizes there’s an antique clock in the officers’mess that’s a source of regimental pride. One night, he manages to smuggle itout to his and Bill’s room, and later mails it off the base. The furiousconsternation this causes among the officers hands Percy a mirthful victorythat he and Bill relish even as they’re obliged to keep it secret. Off-base, the two friends attend concerts in a nearby townwhere their main objective is seeking out female company. Early on, they meettwo nurses who seem equally interested in their companionship. Percy becomesenamored of one who, it turns out, is more interested in Bill. But Bill’sinterests are elsewhere. He has spotted a beautiful, elegant blonde (TamsinEgerton) and he pursues her even after she makes it plain that she’s notavailable. Since she won’t tell him her name, he dubs her Ophelia. In the tale’s second half, Bill and Percy get a break from military hassles when they visit Bill’sfamily on their island. Watching the new queen’s coronation on TV—a brand-newdevice acquired for the occasion—Bill spots Ophelia among the assembledaristocrats. Percy, meanwhile, becomes preoccupied with Bill’s older sister,Dawn (Vanessa Kirby), who has abandoned her Canadian marriage and returned homewith her two kids. Given its loose-knit narrative, the film doesn’t haveanything like a conventional structure. Yet it’s steadily engrossing due toBoorman’s surpassing skills as both a storyteller and a director. Indeed,“Queen and Country” could serve as a master class on how to build interestingcharacters in even the smallest roles, and how to stage scenes with a maximumof expressiveness, elegance and economy. There’s nothing showy about Boorman’sstyle. Compared to “Point Blank,” “Excalibur,” “Zardoz” and other of his films,its manner is faultlessly understated – the mark of a master with nothing toprove. Advertisement As often with Boorman, there are endless pleasures to befound in the film’s performances. Veterans including Thewliss and Grant have afield day with their amusing roles, and young Callum Turner proves a verysolid, appealing Bill. But the cast’s standout has to be Caleb Landry Jones,whose Percy is a sparkplug of comic energy and idiosyncrasy. The Texas-bornactor ends up accounting for one of the director’s most memorable characters—which, considering this is Boorman, is saying something.