Kevin Costnerreaches a welcome career high in this newmovie, a live-action based-on-a-true-story inspirational tale of school sports,produced by Disney. It sounds a little over-determined when described that way, Iknow. But one thing I almost forgot going into this picture is that this kindof picture is the kind of thing that Disney can do very well. And it is verywell done here, thanks in no small part to the superb direction ofNiki Caro.Caro, a New Zealand-born woman, might seem to some an unusual fit for the storyof an all-Latino cross-country running team coached by a white man who’sworking, against his will for all intents and purposes, at an underfunded highschool in the California town that sometimes advertises itself as “the fruitbasket of the nation.” But Caro, who established some good cross-culturaluplift bona fides with her first feature, 2002’s “Whale Rider,” brings hugereserves of both curiosity and empathy to the story, and her abilities as anentertainer keep the movie generous in both heart-tugging and smile-inducingmoments. Costner’s uncanny evocation of Gary Cooper masculinity and GregoryPeck compassion in the role of coach Jim White is the glue that holds ittogether, but the rest of the cast is equally inspired. Advertisement There’s been a lot of talk in cultural criticism of the lastseveral decades about “white messiah” narratives: stories in which theintervention of a Caucasian rescues ethnic minorities at risk. (You mayremember “Dangerous Minds.”) Many representatives of ethnic minorities inacademia and media find this irritating, with good reason, and despite itsbased-on-a-true-story status, “McFarland, USA” could very well be just such astory. But Caro, along with writersChris Cleveland,Bettina Giloisand GrantThompson do something unusual. It’s not something as obvious and crass as the“and she saves him back” trope of “Pretty Woman,” but more along the lines of afamily values cultural exchange. Costner’s Jim White is a high school teacherand coach whose passionate temper gets him fired from a series of gigs in thewhite-bread towns of which he’s a product and has been a fixture. On arriving with wife (Maria Bello) and two daughters, teenand pre-teen, in a town where the rooster next door wakes everyone up beforefive and Jim can’t get a burger, the teacher is almost immediately assailed bycolleagues and students who think it’s hilarious that his name is “White.”Despite his chafing at his fish-out-of-water status, White also gives a damn,and he, like Caro, is a keen observer. He knows the school’s football teamisn’t, and likely can’t be, worth a damn, but once he sees more than one of hisstudents running, rabbit-like, to get to their after-school jobs helping theirparents and other family members with produce-picking, he resolves to create across-country running team. To make itwork he has to gain the trust of both the kids and their parents, and thatmeans he needs to give a little of himself. Getting involved in the lives ofthese self-described “pickers” gives White a painful understanding of theeconomic realities of his environment and the privilege that he’s long takenfor granted. He misses the birthday celebration for his teen daughter Julie,which is a common enough device in the too-busy-doing-good-white-guy scenario,but here it pays off in a dividend, as White gets educated by his prize runnerand the local grocery store owner in the Latin American tradition of theQuinceañera. As White steers his initially ragtag crew to victory aftervictory, he attracts the attention of tonier towns and schools, presenting achallenge to his own commitment to family and community. Advertisement Because, finally, “McFarland, USA” is a paean to family andcommunity. And a story about why, even as so much of what we see about theso-called “American Dream” is tinged with disillusion and corruption, theUnited States remains a land ofsomekind of opportunity for millions of people who come here to do back-breakingwork, day in, day out. It is also, of course, a really entertaining andenjoyable movie. Caro is particularly deft at handling supporting characterroles. All the young runners make an impression, particularly CarlosPratt as the troubled, gentle, and lightning-fast Thomas, andRamiro Rodriguezas Danny, the chunky anchor of the team who’s all heart. But Valente Rodriguezas the harried principal and Danny Mora as the aforementioned store owner arealso outstanding, bringing un-stereotypical life to their archetypal roles. Andwhile for this viewer, who’s also a sometime runner, cross-country running isperhaps the least cinematically-engaging sport ever, Caro and company imbueeach of the race scenes with more than sufficient drama to give the proceedingsa good share of “Rocky”-triumphant moments. Tear-jerking ones, too. The result,as far as I’m concerned, is a feel-good movie that pretty much anyone can feelgood about feeling good about. Particularly Costner fans.