Writer/director Sydney Freeland's debut feature displaysconsiderable restraint in its finale, although that determination only comesafter witnessing an onslaught of complications that pile upon the movie's trioof central characters. "Drunktown's Finest" sets up plenty of pinsand does so with a lot of noise and flash. That Freeland ultimately refuses toknock them down might seem like a detriment, but it's not. The decision isadmirable and unexpected, and for the first time in the movie, it allows us anunderstanding of these characters outside of the collection of externalconflicts they must endure. Advertisement The movie is set in and around a Navajo reservation that'sadjacent to the town of Dry Lake, N.M. The opening narration, which comes fromone of the movie's central characters, describes it as "a place toleave," not to live. She questions why anyone would choose to stay.Freeland opens the movie with a montage of the location and its inhabitants, summarizingthe problems (poverty, gangs, incarceration) as well as some of thevirtues (tradition, family, friendships). The opening narrator is Nizhoni (Morning Star Wilson), aformer resident of the reservation who was adopted by a white couple at the ageof 7 after her biological parents died. She has been attending high school inMichigan, is looking to remain in that state for college, and only returns toDry Lake for summers. This summer, she's trying to complete community servicefor a college scholarship. She also wants to uncover information about thefamily from which she came. There is also Felixia (Carmen Moore), a transgender womanwho lives on the reservation with her grandparents. In a pleasant surprise, hergender identity is simply, unquestioningly accepted by her family, althoughthey have no idea that she earns a living from prostitution. Her grandfather (Richard Ray Whitman), the local medicine man,tells her the tale of how the third gender—thenadleeh—brought men and women together. When he learns she'sauditioning to model for a calendar of Navajo women, he only wants to ensurethat she won't be hurt in the process The final character is Luther "Sick Boy"Maryboy (Jeremiah Bitsui). His first appearance comes after a drunken night outturns into an assault on a police officer. He's scheduled to begin basictraining for the Army at the start of the upcoming week, so his recruitingofficer (Luis Bordonada) convinces the cop to drop the charges and gives SickBoy one last chance to keep his act together. He wants to support his pregnantwife (Elizabeth Frances) and his little sister (Magdalena Begay), of whom hehas guardianship, by joining the military, but he's still tempted by drinking,drugs, and the criminal activity in which his friends engage. Advertisement These characters, of course, are connected in alternatelyarbitrary and inescapable ways. Sick Boy's sister is preparing for a pubertyceremony, which is to be performed by Felixia's grandfather. Felixia meets SickBoy at a store, takes him to a party, and, during a drunken moment, makes surehis hand finds its way between her legs before their kissing goes any further.There really is only one option available as to the question of Nizhoni'sancestry. Freeland's screenplay mixes tradition with superstition(a dead owl, one character notes, means death is coming), overt foreshadowingof problems to come with omens of impending doom (Nizhoni experiences déjà vuat the sight of a dead horse adorned with red handprints), and clunky expositorydialogue establishing a heap of trouble for these characters. The last point isparticularly true for Sick Boy, who is arrested twice, gets into two fights,nearly becomes involved in an armed robbery, and ends up with a man seekingrevenge against him. It's a clutter of half-realized ideas and fully calculatedmelodrama. The performances here are generally unrefined, with mostof the actors—including Wilson and Moore—barely going beyond rote line readings(Bitsui holds his own, although his character also has the heftiest load ofconflicts with which to deal). There's a certain quality of unforced,naturalistic charm to the performances at first (some of Freeland's mostegregiously explanatory dialogue would sound unnatural from even moreexperienced actors), but they become almost burdensome as the movie thicklylays on the conflicts. The movie works in its quieter, less busy moments,especially during its domestic scenes. There's a genuine sense of familial andcultural history when Freeland forgoes any of thestory's explicit obstacles and simply observes these characters going abouttheir everyday lives. We get a glimpse of sincere conflict in a scene betweenSick Boy and his wife, who admits that she's relieved by the idea of herhusband joining the Army, if only because it will mean "one lesschild" for whom she'll have to care. Despite the movie's shortcomings, Freeland shows plentyof promise behind the camera. In those softer scenes, she shows a good deal ofpatience with and for her characters, and she displays an efficient eye forcapturing these locales (complemented by Peter Holland's fine cinematography)."Drunktown's Finest" shows a filmmaker struggling to find her voice.It's a whisper here, but we can hear it. Advertisement