Multi-story feature films are not the happiest of genres,for reasons that are usually very apparent. For one, having to conclude onestory and start another, over and over, interrupts the dream-like flow thatmost moviegoers expect of features. For another, unevenness is almost builtinto the form: some stories will be better than others, perhaps especially whenseveral filmmakers are involved. All of these inherent drawbacks help explain why Argentina’s“Wild Tales” comes as such an extraordinary surprise. Perhaps the bestmulti-story feature this reviewer has ever seen, the Sony Classics release, anominee for this year’s Best Foreign-Language Film Oscar, deserves to become aserious art-house hit in the U.S. thanks to its skill in deftly overcoming theform’s usual deficits, for a result that feels as amazingly cohesive as it isrelentlessly clever and entertaining. Advertisement No doubt the film has something of an advantage in that itcomes from one filmmaker, Damián Szifron (“The Bottom of the Sea”), and thusreflects a singular vision and sensibility. Beyond that, it must be said thatSzifron has remarkable skills as both a director and a storyteller. Each of thesix stories here, which average about 20 minutes, is thoroughly enthralling,and all are united by a mordant black humor. Connected thematically in dealingwith revenge and retribution, each segment sets up expectations that itssuccessor ingeniously fulfills or surpasses. The first, pre-credits story, “Pasternak,” gets things offto a high-flying start. An attractive young woman–a model, we soon learn–checks in for a flight and hears she won’t get frequent flier miles becausesomeone else has paid her ticket. On board the plane, she begins chatting withanother passenger and learns they both knew a guy named Pasternak, a boyfriendshe dumped years ago. Then another passenger says he was the professor whofailed the same guy. Could it be--? Sure enough, the plane is full of peoplewho’ve shafted Mr. P. And who’s that locked in the cockpit? In “The Rats,” revenge is a dish best served with ketchup.When a grumpy man enters an empty roadside restaurant one night, the youngwaitress recognizes him as a corrupt official who drove her father to suicide.Sure, she’d like to see the world rid of him, but she’s not inclined to doanything about it until the diner’s gruff, elderly woman cook urges that itwould be as simple as loading the guy’s fries and eggs with rat poison. Thewaitress is morally torn, but there’s also a practical question: Once ratpoison is past its expiration date, does it become more or less potent? Advertisement The element of class conflict grows more pronounced in “Roadto Hell,” which plays like a more macabre version of Spielberg’s “Duel.” Ridingdown a remote highway in his snazzy new sports car, a sleek corporate typepasses a slow pickup truck and shouts insults at its grizzled, back-countrydriver. Naturally, the city slicker has a flat just a few miles down the road,and the first vehicle to appear in his rear-view is the scorned pickup. Whatensues is apocalyptic (and droll) enough to tickleRod Serling. The film’s last three stories are more expansive, complexand sharply edged in social satire. In “Bombita,” a demolitions engineer stopsto pick up his daughter’s birthday cake and comes out to find his car towed –though the space wasn’t marked a tow-away zone. In the coming weeks, as hismarriage begins to collapse, the enraged citizen seeks justice for his parkingwoes, and finds himself surrounded by fellow Argentines furious at “fascist”bureaucratic stonewallers. Is it possible his skills with dynamite might turnthe engineer into a combination ofFrank Caprahero and Che Guevara? In thisland, it seems, anything but bureaucratic responsiveness is possible. Its premise recalling Paolo Virzi’s recent “Human Capital,”“The Deal” starts out with a rich couple learning their teenage son has rundown a pregnant woman the night before. Frantic, the father and his lawyer comeup with a scheme to pay his poor gardener a half mil to take the rap. But thenthe lawyer, who demands a half mil for his services, brings the prosecutor intoit, which will cost another mil, plus payoffs for the police… No wonder poordad tells them all to go to hell, then realizes that his only real out involvessomething he’s in fact very skilled at: negotiation. Advertisement It might seem at this point the film couldn’t top what’scome before, but not to fear: “Till Death Us Do Part” is a corker. Whileprevious tales hinge on enmity or distress, this one starts out withcelebration and love. At a fancy wedding reception, the guests are giddy, thebride and groom enveloped in bliss. Until, that is, she discovers he’s cheatedon her with a woman in the room. At first, she flees to the roof, weeping andsuicidal. Then the prospect of vengeance hardens her, and soon he’s the onewho’s groveling and sobbing. The reversals of emotional fortune continue untilit seems we’ve just seen a decade of marital turmoil play out in one convulsiveevening. Any of these tales separated from the whole could surely winprizes at short-film competitions. Together, their collective impact proves thesynergistic effect of true artistic vision. With a confident, coolly elegantvisual style somewhere between Demme andDePalma, Szifron emerges from “WildTales” an international auteur to be reckoned with.