For fansofJohn Cusack, the last few years have been a fairly bewildering time as theactor whose mere presence in a film was an almost certain indication that itwould be of greater intelligence, ambition and quality than most ("TheSure Thing," "Tapeheads," "Say Anything," "GrossePointe Blank" and "High Fidelity" to name but a few) has latelybeen found in a string of projects so questionable that evenNicolas Cagemighthave hesitated to appear in them if they had come his way. However, if the first couple of months of 2015 are anyindication, those fans can be reassured that he seems to be finally turningthings around at last. For one thing, his presence in David Cronenberg'sstartling "Maps to the Stars" indicates that he is still willing andable to tackle challenging material when it comes his way. For another, hiscomplete absence from "Hot Tub Time Machine 2," the dreadful sequelto the 2010 comedy that proved to be a minor hit in theaters and a huge successon DVD and cable, indicates that there are indeed some things that even hewon't do for money these days. Advertisement For thoseof you who somehow missed the original "Hot Tub Time Machine," ittold the story of three longtime friends—Adam (Cusack), Lou (Rob Corddry) andNick (Craig Robinson)—who, along with the younger Jacob (Clark Duke), who wasAdam's nephew and turned out to be Lou's son, visited a dilapidated ski resortfrom their misspent youths and, through the aid of the titular device, weretransported back to 1986 and were able to re-experience a particularlymemorable weekend that had a great effect on their lives. The film was dumb,raunchy and pretty forgettable beyond its admittedly catchy title (I amstruggling to recall the details and I just rewatched it yesterday inpreparation for viewing the sequel) but it had a couple of funny moments hereand there that took full advantage of the total absurdity of the concept andhistorians will note that it found room in the cast forLizzy CaplanandJessica Parein the days before their respective breakthroughs on "Mastersof Sex" and "Mad Men." That said, there was absolutely nothingabout it that screamed "sequel" and if "Hot Tub Time Machine2" accomplishes anything—and it really doesn't—it is that it too nevermanages to find a way to justify its own existence. This timearound, it turns out that both Lou and Nick have taken advantage of the timemachine to manipulate events to their advantage—the loathsome idiot Lou is theoften-shirtless and enormously rich founder of the technological marvel that isLougle, while failed musician Nick is having hit after hit with songs that hehas been cribbing from people who aren't even aware that they are being rippedoff—while Jacob is reduced to serving as Lou's long-suffering butler. (Adam'sabsence is explained away in the vaguest manner imaginable.) At one of Lou'slavish parties, one of the many people with a grudge against him shoots him (inthe crotch, ha ha ha) and before he can bleed out, Nick and Jacob drag him to themagical hot tub (don't ask) with the plan of going back in time in order tosave Lou's life and find out who shot him. Alas,things go screwy and the three wind up going 10 years into the future into whatmay be an alternate universe in which the past is the future and vice versa, andin which Lou has not yet been shot. While trying to find Adam, who they suspectof having pulled the trigger, the three come across Adam's son, Adam Jr. (AdamScott), a straight arrow about to marry his equally prim sweetheart (GillianJacobs), and he joins up with them on the search. Along the way, the guysbecome embroiled in a game show in which washed-up celebrities are forced to dowhatever the studio audience votes on, find themselves pursued by aself-driving smart car that also develops an urge to kill Lou, overindulge inany number of chemical substances with often-icky results and haveheart-to-heart talks that are more difficult to take than usual since most ofthem involve the increasingly odious Corddry. Advertisement The original"Hot Tub Time Machine" was a dumb movie, of course, but it at leasttried to approach its dumbness in a smart way. Here, despite the return ofdirectorSteve Pinkand screenwriterJosh Heald(who co-wrote the original andwho goes solo here), this installment is a dumb movie that seems hell-bent onbecoming dumber and cruder with each successive scene. The dialogue is vulgaras all get out without every being particularly funny for the most part (thereare a couple of amusing bits where the guys riff on what the others look likebut this bit gets old really fast), the gross-out stuff is really gross (if youcan name a bodily fluid, it is expelled in abundance here) and whatever wit andcleverness there was on display the first time around has been replaced withsuch witty moments as a depiction of the lighter side of virtual realitynear-rape. Unlessthe idea of a half-naked Rob Coddry acting like the worst human beingimaginable (a far cry from the occasionally sympathetic version of thecharacter seen the first time around) for 90 minutes strikes you as comedicgold, "Hot Tub Time Machine 2" is pretty much a total waste oftime and energy. It looks cheap, the story is little morethan a string of haphazardly constructed scenes with little to offer eithernarratively or comedically, the characters are far more irritating thanendearing this time around and without Cusack's laid-back presence to groundthings, his co-stars spend most of their screen time riffing and scatting withgreat bluster and little effect. And even though the whole enterprise looks andfeels like a direct-to-video enterprise, it ends on a note that suggests thepossibility of a "Hot Tub Time Machine 3"—while I suspect that sucha thing will never actually see the light of day, may I suggest that if itdoes, it should involve the characters going back in time (or forward orwhatever) in order to ensure that "Hot Tub Time Machine 2" never exists.