Thanks inlarge part to my deep-seated belief that virtually any Thirties-era filmstarringWilliam Powellis preferable to the vast majority of the currentofferings at the multiplex, I have seen the 1934 mystery-comedy classic"The Thin Man" more times than I can begin to count. And yet, despitethe multiple viewings over the years, my memory remains somewhat hazy when itcomes to recalling the identity of the killer. I do not consider this to be aflaw, however, because the film has so many other things going for it—theincredible chemistry between Powell andMyrna Loy, the sparkling dialogue, thestylish direction by W.S. Van Dyke and, of course, the always-delightfulAsta—that the nuts and bolts of the plot wind up fading into the background interms of importance. "Wild Canaries" is the latest film to attempt toemulate the charm of that film, with a hefty shmear of Woody Allen's"Manhattan Murder Mystery" added for good measure, but the differencehere is that since this one lacks the aforementioned chemistry, sparklingdialogue, stylish direction and talented terriers, all that viewers have leftto hold on to is the plot and unfortunately, that isn't much to speak ofeither. Advertisement Noah(Lawrence Michael Levine, who also wrote and directed) and Barri (Sophia Takal)are a hipster couple living together in Brooklyn—he is an indie filmdistributor and she is working on a plan to buy and refurbish a shutteredresort. Everything seems normal enough until Sylvia (Marylouise Burke), thesweet old lady living in the last rent-controlled apartment in their building,dies suddenly one day. On the surface, it looks like she suffered a simpleheart attack but when her son, Anthony (Kevin Corrigan), seems oddly unaffectedby her demise—he delivers a terrible eulogy at her funeral and quickly beginsto sell off her furniture and valuables—Barri begins to suspect that somethingis amiss. When she snoops around and discovers that Anthony is having financialdifficulties, Barri becomes convinced that Sylvia met with foul play. Noahpooh-poohs her suspicions at first as being nothing more than paranoidfantasies fueled in no small part by her attendance at a recent Hitchcockretrospective but as things get more suspicious, even he is forced to admitthat she might be on to something after all. Thebright side to the possibility of having a murderer in their midst is that itserves to distract Noah and Barri from their own complications. For starters,his business is on the downswing and he resents Barri's desire to pursue thepipe dream involving the resort instead of getting a job and contributing tothe household finances. Then there is the presence of their lesbian roommateJean (Alia Shawkat), who is Barri's best friend and an avid supporter of theresort plan, possibly because she is nursing a not-so-secret crush on her palthat she wishes to develop into something more. For his part, Noah likes tospend his nights out drinking and carousing, either with the building'slandlord (Jason Ritter), a hotshot artist in the midst of a nasty custodydispute, or with ex-girlfriend/current practicing lesbian Eleanor (AnnieParisse) and when tensions grow between him and Barri, he decides to exacerbatethings further by inviting Eleanor to move in for a few days as well. On paper,"Wild Canaries" sounds like it has all the ingredients for areasonably diverting comedy, but they just never quite pull together into acohesive or entertaining whole. The mystery aspect is not particularlyinteresting because it is sketched out in the most haphazard manner imaginableand since there are essentially only two legitimate suspects on display, thequestion of whodunnit never really gains any traction. Likewise, the quadranglerelationship that develops between Noah, Barri, Jean and Eleanor feelscuriously underdeveloped as well. Watching it, I got the sense that Levine hadideas for two different screenplays that he could not manage to flesh outindividually and, not wanting to waste anything, decided to just jam themtogether. Levine is clearly a fan of the mystery genre and there are any numberof homages throughout—Noah lands in a neck brace that has echoes of the nosebandage sported byJack Nicholsonin "Chinatown" and Barri sports araincoat during her sleuthing that appears to have come from the Columbocollection—but all they wind up doing is make you wish that you were watchingone of those films instead of this one. Advertisement Thebiggest problem with "Wild Canaries" is the lack of any realchemistry between Levine and Takal. This seems a bit odd since the two aremarried in real life but on the screen, they are pretty much the anti-Nick andNora and not just because of Noah's inability to handle a hangover. Their frequentarguments are presumably meant to inspire laughs but they are so forced andgrating (especially a screaming bout that occurs at a point when absolutesilence would seem to be the way to go) that they will no doubt drive mostviewers to the edge. After a while, I found myself hopingfervently that they would be able to overcome the temptations of Jean andEleanor and stay together because if there were ever two characters whodeserved to be stuck with each other, they are Noah and Barri. To befair, there are acouple of funny lines here and there, the Saul Bass-inspired opening creditssequence is nifty and Shawkat and Parisse do enough with their barely developedcharacters to make you wish that the film had focused on them instead. However,too much of the rest of it is either silly or grating and by the time itfinally flops through its increasingly ludicrous final act, most viewers willhave long since given up on it. Put it this way—"Wild Canaries"isn't so much "The Thin Man" (not even the less-interesting latersequels when Nick and Nora were handicapped with a kid) as just painfully thin.