Watching a truly lovely and spirited teenage girl die ofcancer will not, let’s face it, strike some viewers as a great night at themovies. But documentary films often find their value in taking us to placesthat are challenging, even painful. “Farewell to Hollywood” offers therewarding difficulties of that type of filmmaking, along with additionalchallenges that stem from questions about its own ethics. The film’s direction is credited toHenry Corraand ReginaNicholson, and in that fact lies the key to its origins and unusual nature.Corra, a veteran nonfiction filmmaker in his late 50s, met 17-year-old aspiringcineaste Nicholson four years ago at a film festival (where she had anaward-winning short, a fact that is curiously not mentioned in this film).Diagnosed with terminal cancer, she wants to make a feature film before shedies, and he agrees to help her. “Farewell to Hollywood” documents the time followingthat decision until her death two years later. Advertisement Despite their many obvious differences, the twocollaborators are well-matched. Nicholson, who’s known as Reggie, is a majorfilm buff whose fascination with movies such as “Silence of the Lambs,” “PulpFiction” and “Apocalype Now” drives her filmmaking ambitions and gives this doca tinge of the meta-cinematic. For his part, Corra spent several years workingfor the Maysles brothers after encountering “Grey Gardens,” yet he sees hisbrand of “living cinema” as replacing their intended fly-on-the-wallobjectivity with an immersive emotional involvement with his subjects. In keeping with Corra’s vérité background, the film followsReggie’s accelerating illness in a fluid, matter-of-fact, sometimes almostimpressionistic way, with no interviews, narration or explanatory titlesbesides one at the beginning. Therein lies its sensory beauty as a work of art(the cinematography is limpid and intimate throughout), but also some of itsweaknesses as a narrative account of certain events, subjects andpersonalities. Of the various people we see in Reggie’s life, the mostimportant to “Farewell to Hollywood,” besides Corra, are her parents. That initself is not surprising, but the way the relationship evolves is verysurprising, and perplexing. When we first meet them, the dad seems somewhatwithdrawn, perhaps due to lingering shock over his daughter’s diagnosis. Mom,on other hand, comes across as level-headed and determined to support Reggie inevery way she can. Over the ensuing months, though, this family fractures inways that are hard on all involved, yet not easily understood. Some of it, no doubt, comes from stresses common to manyparents and teenagers. Reggie, willful and wanting to be her own person, saysthat her mom doesn’t like that she’s not the adoring little girl of childhood.Cancer adds another big dimension of tension, one that’s surely hard for people who’ve not been there tofully grasp. And the filmmaking itself becomes a problem. Though her folks areinitially supportive of the project, as if it would be an innocuous bit oftherapy, they eventually grow very hostile to it and to Corra – the fatheraccuses the filmmaker of having an affair with his daughter, a charge thatseems patently absurd. Advertisement Filmmaking stops a while, and its eventual resumptiondoesn’t indicate any improvement in relations. On the contrary, after Reggieturns 18, she’s no longer her folks’ responsibility and they push her out oftheir lives (she appears to have no siblings); Corra evidently becomes herchief caregiver and closest companion. As if cancer weren’t bad enough, this family meltdown ispainful stuff. That the parents come off badly is undeniable, yet it seems likethere are two basic explanations for their actions: they are really rottenpeople, or they’re ordinary people who are so freaked out by their daughter’sillness—and perhaps by other things we don’t see—that they reactreflexively by banishing her from contact with them. Which is it? This is an important question, but it’s one that we can’teasily answer from watching “Farewell to Hollywood.” Did Corra offer theNicholsons a chance to tell their side of the story? He doesn’t say. Suchomissions and elisions suggest why the film was controversial on the festivalcircuit. Clearly, Reggie wanted Corra in her life and actively helped shape thefilm’s depiction of her. But others weren’t so willing or able to exercisecontrol, which is why some viewers have questioned the film’s ethics. In this case, ethics are surely bound up with aesthetics, ina problematic way. One of the drawbacks of vérité comes from a kind ofpuritanism that, like much such, pretends to a kind of moral superiority: theimplied sense that filmmaking which uses techniques like interviews andnarration is inherently inferior, more rhetorical and less directly truthful.But surely vérité’s chief appeal is aesthetic, and rhetorical in a differentway: rather than information, it gives us a seamless dreamlike experience likethose of dramatic films. Advertisement Sometimes, though, information is a good thing. Much about“Farewell to Hollywood” ends up being more opaque than it should be, includingCorra himself. He rarely conveys a sense of who he is and how he feels aboutthe events he is not only chronicling but actively shaping. If this were set upas an equal collaboration, why didn’t Reggie turn the camera on him? Anothercuriosity is that they are almost never shown talking about film, including themaking of this one, which must have involved thousands of decisions. Corra has said that Reggie saw a three-hour cut of the filma few weeks before she died (the final version runs 102 minutes) and gave hernotes. Let’s hope she found the lineaments of the film she intended to make. Ashard as it is to watch her physical deterioration and suffering, she comesacross as an ordinary teenager who’s also a very remarkable person, and thathelps make “Farewell to Hollywood” a powerfully emotional and movingexperience, questions about its methods aside.