“What kind of movie is this? Where could it possibly beheading?” Normally, if you find yourself asking such questions, say, ahalf-hour into a movie, it’s a sign of one of two possible things. Either thefilm is a hopeless, unfocused muddle that doesn’t know what it’s up to. Or it’spurposefully oblique, taking us on a journey to new and unexpected cinematicdestinations. Happily,Karim Aïnouz’s “Futuro Beach” is a prime example ofthe latter. And in this case, the unusual artistic itinerary is mirrored by asignificant geographic-cultural one. Advertisement The tale begins on the eponymous Brazilian beach, a stretchof brilliantly white sand, except that in the film’s first minutes our gaze isdrawn away from it and under the ocean’s waves, where bodies are flailing in away that makes desperation seem almost balletic. Two men are threatened withdrowning, and one doesn’t return from the sea. One of the rescuers, Donato (Wagner Moura), is anordinary-seeming twentysomething who has an ailing mother and a youngerbrother, Ayrton (Savio Ygor Ramos), age ten, who worships him to the point ofdubbing him a superhero—Aquaman. A day or so after the apparent drowning,Donato is in his office when the lost man’s pal drops by to discuss thesituation. Konrad (Clemens Schick) is a German, a rough-hewn veteran of theAfghanistan war. He and his friend had been on a journey down to South America,aiming eventually to return to the motorcycle repair shop they own in Berlin.Donato explains that the attempt to find the body will continue. Once themeeting concludes, he offers Konrad a ride back to his hotel. Cut to: the two men in a torrid sexual encounter,sweat-soaked, the German aggressively thrusting into his gasping partner.Though this scene arrives only a few minutes into the story, perhaps it’s fairto ask: Can we now type what we’re watching as a gay film, though one that,given its manner, might also be considered an art film? Perhaps, but it’s remarkable how little this tells us aboutthe characters, what the film is up to or where’s it’s headed. In another goodexample of the gay/art blend,Alain Guiraudie’s “Stranger by the Lake,” wesense from fairly early on that it’s a Hitchockian thriller with certainreadily identifiable gay types caught up in the drama. Here there are no suchconvenient genre or character markers. Moreover, everything is conveyed withmaximum obliqueness. In the scene in Donato’s office, for example, there arehints of what will happen next, but they are so subtle that they perhaps can berecognized only in retrospect. Everything that follows is equally circumspect. The searchfor Konrad’s friend continues, and one night he and Donato go down to the poundingsurf to see if it has washed up on the rocks. Konrad talks about continuing histrek southward and returning when the body is found. What’s just below thesurface here is just the opposite of what’s being said: Konrad doesn’t reallywant to leave Donato, who also isn’t eager to part. We understand this when the second of the film’s three partsbegins. The two men are now living in Berlin, where Konrad is teaching Donatothe language. Konrad has returned to his other passion, motorcycles, and takeslong rides at night by himself. How do the two men feel about each, as the daysturn into months? It’s hard to tell; they are working class guys who obviouslyaren’t in the habit of verbalizing their feelings. Indeed, it’s easier to get asense of their relationship from watching them dance in a disco than fromanything they say. Advertisement Eventually, though, it’s clear that Donato is depressed bythe grayness of Berlin. “I can’t live in a place without a beach,” he says. Heannounces his intention to return to Brazil, buys a ticket and makes all thenecessary preparations. Konrad accompanies him on the train to the airport. Butwhen the train reaches the airport stop, Donato doesn’t get off.Ultimately, “Futuro Beach” is a film about displacement andidentity, love and its costs. Its considerable satisfactions, though, comemainly from the way the story is told, which spells nothing out, and in fact isso reticent that the viewer is constantly drawn into the creation of meaning.This is a poetic approach, to be sure, but it is entirely nonchalant andunstudied; and it extends to the understated beauty of the visuals, where thecontrast between the bright colors of Brazil and muted hues of Berlin is itsown drama.Aïnouz, who was born in Brazil and now lives in Berlin, hassaid that Fassbinder’s “Ali: Fear Eats the Soul” was in his mind when makingthis film. I was reminded more of early films byWim Wenderssuch as “Alice inthe Cities,” as well asFatih Akin’s “Head On,” another great movie aboutimmigrants in present-day Germany. As such comparisons suggest, Aïnouz is nowin a great place: the company of masters.