I’m a sucker for a great behind-the-scenes moviemakingdocumentary. “Hearts of Darkness” and “Burden of Dreams” are must-sees, and thefirst thing I look at when Criterion announces their monthly releases is the listof special features, often as insightful and educational as a great film bookor even a lecture in a class. And I count myself among fans of Nicolas WindingRefn, drawn in by “Pusher” & “Bronson” and blown away by “Drive”. (He alsohappened to be a fascinating, seemingly kind man when I interviewed him.) So, adocumentary short (it’s only 58 minutes but is being released in theaters)about the pressure on Refn during the production of the divisive “Only GodForgives” should be in my proverbial wheelhouse. And yet this sweet,semi-informative doc never quite rises above “Home Movies” or “DVD SpecialFeature” status to really illuminate either process or artist. I walked awayfrom “My Life Directed byNicolas Winding Refn” having enjoyed the time spentwith Refn, his family, andRyan Gosling, but without any further insight intothe production of “Only God Forgives,” filmmaking in general or this particulartalent. Advertisement “My Life Directed” opens with the scene that gave me mybiggest smile over the entire piece as Refn and the greatAlejandro Jodorowskyare having a conversation that ends with the influential filmmaker giving him atarot card reading about his soon-to-shoot follow-up to “Drive.” Just the ideathat Refn and Jodorowsky hang out (he comes back later in the film and fans will remember Refn was a memorable interview subject in "Jodorowsky's Dune") talkingabout life, art, and craft fascinates me, and I was hoping the film wouldfulfill on that opening scene, featuring the kind of intellectual dissection of passion versus expectation that this introduction sets up. Sadly, director LivCorfixen, who also happens to be Refn’s wife, never finds the focus for herpiece, sketching the production in episodic, brief interludes with her partnerbut seemingly missing the most important conversations about how “Only GodForgives” got made. What separates “My Life Directed” is the fact that whileCorfixen may not have gotten the kind of Jodo-Refn conversations one would hopefor, she gets a raw, unfiltered, husband version of a world-renowned filmmaker.So, we see Refn in bed, clearly wracked by nerves as to how “Only God Forgives”will be received by the rest of the world. He clearly loves the film, but he isobsessed, from pre-production through premiere night, with the idea thataudiences will be disappointed in the fact that it’s not “Drive 2.” This documentarymay work best viewed in conjunction with the feature because one could easilyargue that the film’s flaws sprung from the filmmaker’s lack of confidence inhis own vision. Which brings us back to the idea that “My Life Directed byNicolas Winding Refn” is a great special feature, or a bonus disc in aninevitable box set of Refn’s works. It feels supplemental more than essential.