The consequences of seemingly innocuous careless moments,the inexorability of fate, and the possibility of grace or just merereconciliation in the face of disheartening catastrophe: these are the themesof “Bluebird,” the debut feature from writer/directorLance Edmands. The movieis set in a Maine logging and paper-manufacturing town that is deliberatelymade to seem at a far remove from the larger world. (Edmands peppers the film’ssoundtrack with gentle, moody, vintage tunes from the likes of The Fleetwoods,which contributes a slightly eerie, floating-atop-time feel to the picture.)School bus driver Lesley (Amy Morton) is established as conscientious andcaring by the way she donates her own wool cap to a youngster who forgot to donone on the bright winter day on which the film opens; still, her solidcharacter doesn’t prevent her from making an erroneous head count after sheparks the bus. Combine this with a single mom who blacks out in her bathtubbefore it occurs to her to wonder where her child is, and, well… Advertisement The boy, nearly frozen overnight, winds up in the hospitalwith a highly diminished function. Lesley is devastated and wracked with guilt;her husband Richard (John Slattery) and adolescent daughter Paula (Emily Meade)are hard-pressed to process the events. As is the boy’s mother, Maria (LouisaKrause) and his tough grandmother Crystal (Margo Martindale). “Bluebird” proceeds quietly from this shattering, bleakpoint. Edmands’ scenario provides plenty of opportunity for narrative twistsand social commentary, but these aren’t the areas of interest for thefilmmaker. Rather, he’s interested in the people, and what they look like, howthey behave, as they cope, or fail to cope. The resolution of the film doesn’tcome in the form of a “eureka” moment in the investigation, or the filings ofthe lawyer who cagily presents his services (and hints at their potentialrewards) to Maria and Crystal at the hospital. It comes in the looks on thefaces of the characters as they make the determination to try to live theirlives. It’s not easy. Lesley in particular cannot find her way outof the rut of grief and shame she feels at her mistake; to see it compounded bythe loss of her job is stomach-churning. Richard’s frustration finds atransformation into potentially destructive, ultimately impotent rage. Paula’sresentment at having what should be a fun time in her teens turned into asupporting role in a tragedy also comes up against a wall. And Maria’s angerand denial explode in a confrontation with Lesley that solves nothing. The cast members are all exceptional; while the movie’sincredible roster of acting talent suggests an ensemble piece, the structure ofthe movie patiently presents a series of scenes between two or three characters(Adam Driveralso has a role as a co-worker of Maria’s, and acquits himselfstolidly). The ultra-widescreen cinematography ofJody Lee Lipesmakes theviewer feel the cold of the setting, the near-desolation of the long windingroads that swing around the forest that feeds the paper mill. All of theseviews suggest a striving toward spiritual epiphany, on the part of both the movie’scharacters and the movie itself. The nature of the setting in a sense suggestsFaro, the island on whichIngmar Bergmanset and shot some of his most bracingstudies of humanity and God, or the lack thereof; Edmands’ clear appreciationof the expressive qualities of a non-expressive human face is in the traditionof Bresson. Which is not to say that the filmmaker has hit those particularheights here. Advertisement The movie, like so many independently-produced character-drivendramas these days, is too fond of its two-note-piano-chords-and-strings score(although this one, by Daniel Bensi and Saunder Jurriaans, has a little moremodernist heft than most), almost to the extent that one gets the feelingEdmands didn’t entirely trust his own images. He ought to have. “Bluebird” canbe a tough film to watch—given that this reviewer lives in New York, which hasbeen undergoing a frigid snap like nobody’s business, and has also been to ahospital every day for a week visiting a relative (who is recovering well, noworries), it is not the sort of thing I’d actually be inclined to sit throughleft to my own devices at the moment—but it is a distinctive one, and thedirector is worth your attention.