A Danish revenge Western starringMads Mikkelsen, huh? Ifthe credited director were Nicholas Winding Refn, the idea could pass for a“Funny or Die” pastiche. A little bit inside, admittedly—one needs to be a realup-to-the-minute cinephile to get the joke, but it’s pretty…evocative. But asit happens, “The Salvation,” a Danish revenge Western starring Mads Mikkelsen,is a very real movie, and it is directed byKristian Levring(“The King IsAlive”), whose sensibility is a little more nuanced than that of thesensationalist Refn, which is all to this movie’s benefit. Advertisement Viewers who only know Mad Mikkelsen as the title characterin the ultra-creepy NBC series “Hannibal,” or recollect his teardrops-of-bloodturn as Le Chiffre in the Bond reboot “Casino Royale” may have troubleimagining him in a role as anything other than a stolid terror. His broadshoulders, often stiff bearing, and finely sculpted but almost over-definitefacial features—broad brow, skyscraper-high cheekbones, a mouth like a closedswitchblade—don’t fit the profile of the devoted husband and family man thatMikkelsen plays at the opening of this movie, which takes place in the AmericanWest of the 1870s. The thing is, of course, that Mikkelsen’s a damn fine actor,and as Jon, a Dane come to America to escape the aftermath of a war in his homecountry, meeting his young son and reunited with his wife after seven yearsapart, he brings a lot of heart to the train station meeting with which thisfilm opens, complete with gorgeous rock-formation vistas and stirringMorricone-like music on the soundtrack. However. Mikkelsen does not get to play the kind, devotedhusband and father for too long. Soon both wife and son are, well, dead, andJon has taken swift revenge on the dirty rapists and killers responsible. It’sat this point that a viewer might be truly grateful that the movie wasn’tdirected by Refn, for fear that Refn might depict Jon, I dunno, bathing in theentrails of the men who destroyed his family. No, Jon merely shoots them, andthe violence is brutal, and fittingly so, but it is not carried out tocartoonish extremes. Since this is not just a Western but a homage to Westerns(one wonders whether it’s possible in this day and age to make a Western that’snot), and since all he described action takes place in the first fifteenminutes of a 90-minute movie, that of course can’t be the end of it, and as ithappens, and should surprise no one, the dirty dogs that Jon killed happen tohave a fairly prominent dirty dog relative/associate. Enter Jeffrey DeanMorgan’s Delarue, a gang leader and “boss” who’s got the “good” people of Jon’stown well and truly under his thumb. He vows vengeance on the killer of hisyounger brother (for he was one of the two dispatched by Jon) not just on hisbehalf but on that of his brother’s widow Madelaine, a beauty with a slashed-uplip that just won’t seem to heal, and whose disinclination to speak is soonrevealed as an actual inability. Delarue’s a real horror show, as his adoptionof Madelaine more than aptly demonstrates, and the way that the townspeople bowto his will (Jonathan Pryce’s undertaker character is particularly obsequiousand weasely) is both deplorable and kind of understandable.  But summoning the steely implacability that’sbecome a hallmark of his performing style, Mikkelsen transforms into amerciless, quiet force of vengeance; working with brother Peter (MikaelPersbrandt) a somewhat more voluble and crafty character (the way he manageshis escape from jail is one of the film’s standout scenes), he makes theevildoers pay, even as the audience is made to keep guessing as to whose sidethe silent Madelaine, a key game piece, is on. It’s all quite engaging, beautifully shot and staged, withvery satisfyingly choreographed action scenes. It is not a particularlylight-hearted Western but it’s also neither portentous nor pretentious, and itdoesn’t wear out its welcome. Some of the CGI-enhanced shots of evocativeWestern landscapes are a little TOO evocative, that is, picture-perfect, butwhat are you going to do. I’ve seen homage/pastiches commit much worse in theway of sins. Advertisement