DirectorKirby Dick& ProducerAmy Zieringfollow up their award-winning “TheInvisible War” with another incendiary, shocking, infuriating masterpiece, “TheHunting Ground.” Again, they tackle an institution that has engendered aclimate in which sexual assault has nearly become normalized, an expectation oncertain college campuses. Over the next year, over 100,000 women will besexually assaulted on college campuses. As disturbing as the actual crimes are,Dick & Ziering point a righteous finger at the administrations that knowtheir campuses live up to the title of this film for young women and yet theydo nothing in the pursuit of the almighty dollar. Our institutions of higherlearning are often sacrificing the safety of the children who go there in orderto quash statistics that might hurt enrollment. It is an infuriating realitythat “The Hunting Ground” exposes. I was rattled watching it, finding it hardto catch my breath and harder still to imagine how many people are in positionsof power who have heard these stories so many times and turned their backs onvictims. Advertisement It is a bit of a cruel joke that Dick & Ziering opentheir film with home videos of high school students reading their acceptanceletters to the tune of “Pomp & Circumstance.” And yet it’s appropriatebecause it sets up a very vital theme in “The Hunting Ground”—that of thewide-eyed, optimistic teenager who really just wants to get an education buthas been sold a false bill of goods about their own safety. Lest you think anyof this might be exaggerated for cinematic impact, the filmmakers pepper theirentire film with jaw-dropping facts. 16-20% of undergraduates will be sexuallyassaulted. Even more won’t report it for fear of falling into the category of avictim or having to deal with an administration and society quick to blame thevictim. When one rape victim reports that the administrator to whom shereported the crime compared rape to a football game—“what would have donedifferently in the game?”—I literally wanted to start screaming. And that’swhat Dick & Ziering want. We should be screaming. The stats continue. In 2012, 40% of all colleges reported nosexual assaults. If there’s anyone out there who actually believes that 2 outof 5 college campuses in this country actuallyhadno sexual assaults that year, I’m impressed you know how to usethe internet. What is actually happening is a very careful protection of thebrand name that is a college reputation. And it’s happening everywhere. Even ata place like Harvard, people are asking questions like “Why didn’t you fighthim?” At the University of Virginia, they had ZERO expulsions for sexualassault in the same time period that they had 183 for cheating and otheracademic violations. Expelling cheaters looks better to check-cutting parentsthan telling them that their child may not be safe. And this environment of denialallows for repeat offenders, who commit an average of SIX assaults. In somecases, they are literally given sanctuary in athletic facilities. Campus securityat Notre Dame cannot contact athletes for any reason, even if a rape has beenreported. As a director, Dick knows how to build a case, intercuttinginterviews with statistics that portray an epidemic, a crisis, a seriousproblem for all Americans of all ages. Most importantly, they empower thevictims, giving them a platform from which to speak that the institutions thatthey supported through attendance and tuition did not. And they focus most oftheir energy on two young women from North Carolina—Andrea Pino and Annie E.Clark—who were raped on their campus and turned their stories into rallyingcries for change across the country. Just as they did with Kori Cioca in “TheInvisible War,” the directors present true heroism in Pino and Clark, twopeople who stood up for victim’s rights and ended up revealing the depth of a problemthat I don’t think even they knew was so widespread. “The Hunting Ground” couldhave been a series of disturbing statistics and personal stories, but thedirectors know that it is the survivors who are trying to enact change who willinspire viewers to support the action needed to make it so. Advertisement The structure of “The Hunting Ground” gets repetitive butthat’s by design and Dick does an admirable job of subtly movingthrough different aspects of the issue from the lack of institutional responseto the frat system to the athletic program, even spending a notable amount oftime on the Jameis Winston story and Florida State’s disturbing response orlack thereof to the accusations against the soon-to-be NFL player. Whether ornot you believe Winston’s accuser is not the issue—although his fans and thoseof the program he led to glory will see it that way. No, the issue is thatvictims are presumed to either be a contributing factor in the crime ordismissed altogether, especially when the accused is a superstar athlete. Untilthat changes, until we value a victim’s story of sexual assault above all else—institutionalpride, tuition cost, legal complications, athletic prowess—our children willnever be truly safe. And if our children aren’t safe, how can you not be angry?