Justbefore the commencement of the screening of the new horror film "TheLazarus Effect" that I was attending, a woman entered the theater with twosmall children—maybe 6 and 4 years of agetops. Under normal circumstances, such a spot-on parenting choice would lead tothe kids screaming and yelling in response to all the nasty imagery and blaringsound effects emanating from the screen. However, I don't recall hearing asingle peep from either of them at any point during the screening despite allthe on-screen atrocities. From this, I can conclude one of two things—either kids today are even more jaded than previouslysuspected or, more likely, "The Lazarus Effect" is such a limp excusefor a horror movie that it cannot even get a rise out of a couple of kids outpast their bedtime on a school night. Advertisement The filmis yet another riff on the old chestnut of arrogant scientists who discover thesecret to bringing the dead back to life and discover to their amazement thatit is not all that it is cracked up to be. Our tamperers in God's domain thistime around are Frank (Mark Duplass) and Zoe (Olivia Wilde), a couple ofresearchers at a California university who are developing a serum that couldhelp revive the dead. With their team—computer ace Niko (DonaldGlover), stoner brainiac Clay (Evan Peters) and Ava (Sarah Bolger), the cutenewcomer who exists solely so that the other characters can explain things atlength to her (and the audience) that they presumably already know—they manage to revive a dead dog. Inevitably, the dogdoesn't seem quite right afterwards and one character remarks that it might endup going Cujo on them, presumably because referring to the far more apt"Pet Sematary" might have seemed a little too on the nose forcomfort. Throughcircumstances too idiotic to go into here, the group has all their researchtaken over by a biotech firm and they are shut out of their own project. In aneffort to prove that this work was theirs, they sneak back into the labs onenight in order to replicate the experiment. Alas, it all goes higgledy-piggledyand Zoe winds up electrocuted. Remembering his vow as a mad movie scientist tofirst always do harm, the grieving Frank decides to zap her with the serum andbring her back. Again, it works but things are not entirely right with hereither as she begins utilizing 100% of her brain's functions to develop strangepowers such as telekinesis, the ability to pull the others into her memories ofa barely-buried childhood trauma and the habit of knowing exactly what everyoneelse is about to say. Now trapped inside the lab, the others find themselvesbeing picked off one by one in grisly (though not grisly enough to violate thePG-13 rating) fashion while trying desperately to figure out a way to put astop to what they have wrought before there can be the requisite final scenedesigned to set up a sequel. If youthink the above description was boring, trite and predictable, try sittingthrough it as it is unfolding. This isn't a real horror movie—this is the kind of horror movie that the characters in arealhorror movie watch in order tocomment on the lameness of the genre before their authentic terrors begin. Thescreenplay byLuke DawsonandJeremy Slateris a pastiche of elements cribbedfrom other films ranging from "Frankenstein" to"Flatliners" to, oddly enough, last summer's action hit"Lucy." (To be fair, the latter is more of a coincidence since thefilm has apparently been sitting on a shelf since 2013.) The scares are almostentirely of the cheapo "BOO!" moments where someone unexpectedly popsinto the frame for a quick jolt; while these can be effective when used sparingly,the film proceeds to run the technique into the ground in the first 10 minutesand then continues on with it. Meanwhile, the one surefire shock in a film ofthis sort—the bit where somethingthought to be lifeless is lying under a sheet and suddenly sits up—is handled so badly that the only screams are ones of frustration.To top things off, the entire thing is shot in such darkness that the mere actof looking at it becomes a chore that is hardly worth the effort. Advertisement Walkingout of "The Lazarus Effect," the only question I had is why so manytalented people signed on for a project that by all rights is the kind of thinggenerally made by complete unknowns who then fervently try to deny itsexistence if they wind up making it big sometime down the line. Okay, I guess Ican kind of understand why Olivia Wilde might have done it--after all, she getsto bark, drool, sleep four feet above the covers and deliver the immortal line"Did I just die?" in what may have struck her like an exceptionallyloony episode of "House." However, that doesn't explain why talentslike Duplass, Glover and Bolger would waste their time on such nothing roles.Even the director,David Gelb, has a better pedigree than one might expect: althoughthis is his first narrative feature, he made a splash a couple of years agowith the hit documentary "Jiro Dreams of Sushi." He even gives anapparent shout-out to that previous effort in one scene in which he has Wildeeating a plate of sushi. Alas, the pieces of fish on her plate come closer todemonstrating recognizable signs of life than anything else on display here.