“The night they invented champagne/they absolutely knew/that all we'd want to do/isfly to the sky on champagne.” So goes the song from “Gigi.” A pleasant thought, andI imagine some vintners wish that it had taken only one night to invent champagne.One can only imagine the nights, days, and years of trial and error that went intoconcocting the very precise and highly legally regulated process behind the creationof the only sparkling wine that can rightly be designated champagne. Because just asonly whiskey made in Scotland can be called “Scotch whiskey” only sparkling winesmade in the Champagne region of France—a relatively narrow strip of a not-exactly-enormous country-—be called Champagne. The reasons why, and many other seemingmysteries of process and designation, including the secret of how those bubbles come toanimate a beverage that is not, in fact, carbonated, are provided in this brisk, entertainingfilm, directed by     David Kennard    , who last year addressed red-wine concerns with thedocumentary “A Year In Burgundy.”Advertisement Spectacularly photographed throughout by Jamie LeJeune, the movie opens with a birds-eye view of a field of grapes. This is courtesy of a hot-air balloon ride taken to celebratethe 40thbirthday of Xavier Gonet, one half of the champagne-making concern Gonet-Medeville. Gonet seems a genial enough fellow, even as he describes the effect hisballoon-ride provided him: “We were like gods...looking down on our subjects. It wasfun.” Okay, fella.While the style of the movie’s prose narration is a little pedestrian, it’s packed withinformation: for example, under the topsoil of the fields where champagne grapes aregrown, the ground is largely chalk—weird, right?—and this somehow accounts for the“clean crisp finish” of the beverage. Despite the finitude of the product, the film notesthat “Champagne is an industry with a massive global market to defend,” in part at leastbecause of its mythic stature among celebratory intoxicants. Alternating with detaileddescriptions of the arcane practices involved with its manufacture (it takes a reallydedicated winemaker to look after the bottle-revolving process that rids the liquid of itssediment) and chronicles of the tragic, war-wracked regions that gave birth to the quaff,the movie has some compelling content to share. And the views of the Frenchcountryside it offers, not to mention of pleasant villages whose populaces seemrefreshingly tied to the land rather than to their digital devices, constitute a kind ofcinematic vacation for the viewer interested in such a thing.But Kennard is also prettydevoted to his commonplaces, and the way he dots the movie’s soundtrack with snippetsof Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony and Strauss’s “Blue Danube” waltz is a bitpredictable. It’s also telling that while he enjoys laying out the arcane rules ofChampagne-making in great detail (100 pounds of grapes must produce only eightounces of juice, holey moley that’s a lot of grapes), when it comes to labor relationsbetween the very nice and well-off families who run the vineyards and the folks whoactually pick the grapes, the movie shows somewhat less engagement. I’m not sayingthere’s a scandal being ignored here, just that it might be nice in the film to hear fromsomeone who doesn’t get to look down on the grapevines like a god. We’re supposed tocoo at the adorability of the grandchildren of the sports-car driving fat cats who do somelight picking of a weekend to get a feel for the activity, but we never find out theperspective of the picker who really has to put his or her back into the work. One hopesthat they get a free bottle or two as a bonus.Still: the mental stress of this work is clearly not nothing. There’s so much that can gowrong, that even the most self-satisfied of the vintner has control over, that one can’t helpbut admire the skill and persistence of Champagne makers. After all, bathtub gin can getone just as drunk, if not drunker. The Champagne experience is a particular one, and evenif you don’t imbibe this movie can give you an appreciation for what makes it special.