Thereal test for a first-rate actor is whether they can be good in a bad role in abad film.Anthony Hopkins, maybe our greatest living actor, has passed thattest many times over the years, and in “Kidnapping Mr. Heineken” he is at itagain. The filmmakers were able to pay his fee, and so Hopkins shows up for anotherrubbishy, misbegotten project and shames the whole enterprise with his open andvolatile face, his incisive voice, his mere ultra-soulful presence. Hopkinsplays Freddy Heineken, the beer tycoon who was kidnapped in Amsterdam in 1983and held for ransom. “Oh, what are you doing?” Hopkins’s Heineken asks hisabductors, in a rather bored tone of voice, as they spirit him and hischauffeur Ab Doderer (David Dencik) into a waiting van. At first, you mightthink that it is Hopkins himself who is bored with this pedestrian film, butthat boredom in the tone of his voice is actually part of his character here. Advertisement Afterhe has been confined and chained in a soundproofed room, Hopkins’s Freddyaddresses one of his kidnappers with smooth demands for a bathrobe and a decentchair. In further meetings, Freddy says he doesn’t like themusic that is being played on a speaker and requests some Schubert instead, andhe wants some inexpensive Chinese food instead of the ham sandwiches that he’sbeen getting. Freddy takes command of the situation as a kind of CEO of his ownkidnapping, and Hopkins finds a somewhat amusing way of playing his incongruousauthority. Trying to entice one of the kidnappers, he offers a life of wealthand blondes. “No?” he asks. “Are you gay or something?” And then he gives him alittle air kiss! When Freddy finally calls his kidnappers morons, it comes as arelief, because they really are irritatingly dopey, making mistake after mistakebut getting away with them. Themajor problem among many in the unfocused “Kidnapping Mr. Heineken” is thatvery little thought seems to have been given to how this story should be toldor why it merits telling. Most of the movie is about the five kidnappers, whoare led by Cor Van Hout (Jim Sturgess), and though they all get a lot of screentime they are barely characterized. After getting turned down for a loan from abank, Cor and his cohorts violently evict some punk squatters from a building,and it’s hard to tell during this eviction fight scene just who we’re supposedto be rooting for; at one point the camera catches Cor smiling at his friendWillem (Sam Worthington), so it would seem we are supposed to view these guysas misguided but likable badasses (no such luck). When Cor talks to his gang abouttaking the risk of a kidnapping for a big payday and mentions that he’s beenplanning something like this since they were kids, it doesn’t ring remotelytrue, and when the guys rob a bank in order to finance their kidnapping scheme,it becomes clear that directorDaniel Alfredsonis only interested in shootingrushed chase scenes without context or motivation. Thefive guys who do this kidnapping of Mr. Heineken are so inept that they seemlike they should be in a slapstick comedy, yet the film doesn’t pursue thecomic aspects of this case at all and tries instead for very low-level actionsuspense. (The only outright joke here is when a bartender says he thinksBudweiser is behind the kidnapping, hardy har har.) The Five Stooges at thecenter of the film leave a copy of their ransom note in a copier, don’t knowwhether one of them left fingerprints on the note, can’t decide why theygrabbed the chauffeur along with Mr. Heineken, and are so dimwitted that theyseem to have trouble walking and talking at the same time. Advertisement Whilethe kidnappers brood and yell at each other, we are left to wonder when thelast time was that Hopkins was in a decent film. Is it 10 years now? 20?Difficult to say, but his lustily indiscriminate career is filled with movieslike “Kidnapping Mr. Heineken,” which buy his talent and his star quality andleave him stranded. This one even betrays the little character sketch he’sdoing by having Mr. Heineken go mad for only one scene in a way that makes nosense for the character Hopkins has been developing, and this random mad sceneis intercut with another random car chase scene. It’s high time Hopkins stoppedwasting his talent on films like this and got back to the level of work that heachieved in the early 1990s, when we were left hanging on his everyunpredictable pause.