This movie is a loose remake of a 1973 French crime drama written and directed by JoseGiovanni, who wrote a handful of classic genre pictures, including Jacques Becker’sprison-break picture “Le Trou,”     Alain Corneau    ’s gangster-on-the-run story “Classe tousrisques” (both 1960) and     Jean-Pierre Melville    ’s one-last-caper “Le Deuxieme Souffle”(1966). Giovanni’s original was a tense, lean narrative of a paroled con dogged by anold enemy, a cop with a grudge. This film, directed by     Rachid Bouchareb    , best knownin this country for his “     Indigènes    ” (aka “Days of Glory”), about North African soldiersfighting for France in World War II, makes the story a bit baggier, and, in a reach forcontemporary significance, changes its setting to contemporary New Mexico and makesits paroled criminal a convert to Islam.Advertisement In this update, the viewer knows things are going to end badly from the opening shots.One of the film’s characters is seen dragging an inert body over a desert landscape.Then, in a long shot, he’s seen smashing the body’s head with a rock while screaming.The perspective reminded me of a similar death-seen-from-a-great distance scene, inAbderrahmane Sissako    ’s extraordinary 2014 “     Timbuktu    ,” but where Sissako’s sceneshowed a quiet, implacable assurance, Bouchareb’s presentation has a slight ring ofmanipulative dynamics, and overdetermination. This feel persists over the course ofmany perfectly-framed vistas, including a shot of     Brenda Blethyn    standing in a doorwaythat is practically begging the viewer to compare it to “     The Searchers    .” But Blethyn’srecognizable presence also constitutes a godsend of sorts: when this film's excellent actorsare given things to do, Bouchareb’s heavy-handedness is easier to ignore.Blethyn’s character is a parole officer. Forrest Whitaker plays Garnett, out three yearsearly from a twenty-year-plus sentence; seems he killed a deputy during his gang-bangertimes.     Harvey Keitel    is Agati, a humane but exceptionally businesslike sheriff who has anextreme grudge against Garnett. The movie takes its time with these characters. Garnett,praised early on by his spiritual adviser on having learned to control his anger (there’sthe first-act gun-mention you always hear that Chekhov quotation pulled out about), ridesaround on a motorbike enjoying his newfound freedom while Agati seethes and ponderswhat he’s going to do about this new problem preying on his mind. Blethyn’s charactergives Garnett the old tough-not-quite-love treatment, bristling when he ingenuouslyboasts to her about a date with a woman he’s about to go on. “Tell her the truth,” shebluntly advises him. And he does, eventually. But once Agati starts harassing him, andonce an old criminal associate (     Luis Guzman    ) starts trying to lure him back into the fold,Garnett starts coiling up into himself more and more. An explosion is bound to happen.The suspense is spiced up here by the culture clashes implicit in the environment andexplicit in some of the characterizations. Early in the film Keitel’s sheriff asks Blethyn’scharacter to stop by a barbecue celebrating the return home of some troops who’ve beenserving in Afghanistan. Garnett’s devotion to his newfound faith doesn’t impress Agatiat all: in fact it seems to deepen his resentment of the character. What’s odd about “TwoMen” is the fact that after establishing all of this material relative to character, Bouchareb,who co-wrote the adaptation with     Olivier Lorelle    and Yasmina Khadra, allows it toall fall away. The story builds to a climactic confrontation, but not the one, perhaps,that we’ve been expecting, and then ends on a frustratingly indeterminate note that haslittle to do with the issues the movie went to the trouble to raise in the first place. Asexceptional as the acting in the picture is, and it is wonderful—Whitaker and Keitel are asinventive and surprising as they’ve been in years, and the supporting roles played by thelikes of     Ellen Burstyn    and     Stan Carp    are well-sketched—it can’t entirely lift the moviefrom the rut it has all but plowed into by the end credits.Advertisement