“Mark reacts.”Those two words may be the best way to describe Mark Defriest, one of the mostinfamous prisoners in the Florida penal system. He’s a man who doesn’t sitstill, even if his reactions lead to more harm than good. His story, chronicledin “The Mind of Mark Defriest” is an infuriating one in that you want to shakeeveryone involved and ask them what the purpose of incarceration really is intoday’s society. Mark Defriest is not a dangerous man to society. He’s clearly mentallyill. And yet, after being sentenced to a ridiculously high four years forstealing tools that he obviously thought belonged to him after the death of hisfather and before the will could be processed, Defriest has now spent 34 yearsbehind bars, and, at the time of the initial documentary filming, was scheduledfor parole in 2085. A series of prison escapes and serious DRs (DisciplinaryReports) kept pushing his release date well past the norm, and his behavior behindbars has put him in solitary confinement for 27 of the last 34 years. Markreacts, and the prison system reacts back. Advertisement Directed byGabriel London, most of “The Mind of MarkDefriest” consists, naturally, of Mark telling his ridiculous story, sometimesin his own words and sometimes through animated reenactments with the voices ofScoot McNairyas Mark and Shea Wigham as other characters. Defriest was firstjailed in 1979 after the death of his father. He went to pick up some toolsthat he thought belonged to him, and his mother accused him of stealing them.The 19-year-old was given four years for the theft, but with good behaviorwould likely have been out much sooner. Mark couldn’t be contained behind bars.He would craft prison items into weapons, including guns, and escaped more thanonce, being re-captured every time and adding more years to his sentence. The first act of “The Mind of Mark Defriest,” in which manyof Mark’s more remarkable behind-bars behaviors are chronicled, is a little toohaphazard for its own good. As fun as McNairy’s line readings can be, I wantedless animated memories. Defriest is a fascinating subject in his own right,and, from the very beginning, the film works best in the moments when it letshim talk instead of its flashy, sensationalistic ones. Director Gabriel Londondidn’t need to skew every angle and quick cut every interview. There’s so muchstory here, let it tell itself instead of weighing it down in movie effects. Surprisingly and refreshingly, that’s kind of what Londondoes about halfway through as the animated memories let up and we spend waymore time with Defriest and the people trying to get him out of jail, includingthe medical professional who once declared him “malingering” (faking mentalillness to get out of sentencing) but now firmly believes that Mark has seriouscompetency issues. Is Mark mentally ill or is it one of his tactics? He doesthings that areclearlyharmful tohim and his legal situation. Isn’t that a kind of mental illness in itself? Asthe doctor says, “People can be planfulin the service of strange ideas.” Just because Mark has the wherewithal toplan and scheme doesn’t make him mentally competent. Advertisement It’s also remarkably smart of London to get the warden ofthe Florida State Prison involved to corroborate Mark’s reports of the terrifyingconditions behind bars. At different times in his incarceration, Mark wasgang-raped, kept as a “girlfriend,” and forced into a solitary condition inwhich he had no lights, running water, utensils, or clothes. It’s hard to believethat this is happening in the United States, and one hopes “The Mind of MarkDefriest” forces further investigation into sanctioned torture happening in ourpenal system. “The Mind of Mark Defriest” is the rare documentary thatgets more and more interesting as it goes along, even ending with an update onthis still-unfolding story that just took place. As Mark’s story gets less headline-grabbing(prison escapes! makeshift guns!), London allows the movie to really focus onits subject in all its fascinating complexities. How can a man known as thePrison Houdini do so many things that sabotage his own life? And is the onlyresponse our system can muster up for someone like Mark Defriest furtherpunishment? Just because “Mark reacts,” doesn’t mean our legal or mental healthsystems need to do the same.