Independent cinema is littered with lovable losers whom we’re supposed to laugh at/with and then be on ourmerry way, comfortable in the knowledge that we may be a little bit left ofcenter but we’re more normal thanthatguy. What I often find disingenuous about these characters is that they don’texist in a world with consequences or genuine emotion. They are exaggeratedcartoon characters, the slacker as a punchline. Marty Jackitansky, theunforgettable “hero” ofJoel Potrykus’ “Buzzard” is no punchline. UnderPotrykus’ clever direction and with a striking performance fromJoshua Burge, Martygoes from quirky to desperate to dangerous gradually and effectively. He’s nota character to be taken lightly, or quickly forgotten. Advertisement “Buzzard” opens with Marty closing his checking account andthen trying to open a new one with the exact same bank employee to get the $50bonus for opening an account. Did I mention he works for the bank as a temp? He’sthe kind of guy who asks what’s complimentary when he orders room service.After a regular pattern of ordering unnecessary office supplies just to returnthem to the local store to get a cash refund, Marty ups his game in terms oflegality and starts signing over refund checks that were sent back to the bankdue to incorrect addresses. He lives alone, has a diet of mostly Hot Pockets and MountainDew, wears monster masks and listens to metal. Marty is what could be called an“angry young man” but we’ve never seen one quite like him in film. The reason for that is that Burge and Potrykus are willingto realistically explore the darker/tragic edges of a character like this. Theydon’t just present the life of a slacker but the slow erosion of sanity thatoften comes within that lifestyle. This is not an apathetic-but-content life;it is a seething series of missteps and misanthropic behavior from a man whomay be delusional and is definitely dangerous. Consequently, “Buzzard” pulseswith an undercurrent of dread in that it feels like Marty is going to dosomething very bad, either to himself or someone else. Burge is phenomenalhere, giving a memorable, well-rounded performance. His take on Marty is not your typical cinematic slacker: all cooldetachment and naïve apathy. Marty wants more from a world that hasn’t givenhim much of anything at all. In many ways, “Buzzard” is a clever commentary on acapitalist system of insufficient checks and balances that allows a creaturelike its title character to hover over the rest of humanity, looking for something, anything on which to feed. There’s a large segment in the middle of “Buzzard” in whichMarty has to hide out in his co-worker Derek’s (Potrykus) basement that feels abit mistimed. It goes on too long and Derek is too much of a cartoon, drawnlike a 12-year-old boy in man’s clothing. He obsesses over his Nintendo gamesand says things like “gaywad” as an insult. It’s a section of “Buzzard” thatfeels broad comedically when what works about the film is how much it avoidsthe easy jokes. Potrykus and Burge get the film back though in the final actas Marty runs to Detroit with little more than a modified Nintendo Power Gloveand his fraudulent checks. There’s a sense of desperation here. Where could he possiblygo? What does he have planned? It’s remarkably effective, even on an emotional level.There’s a fantastic scene in which Marty is speaking to his mother on the phoneand lying about the place he’s at in life. When he tells his mom that “Everybody really likes me” and we knowhe’s absolutely alone in the world, it’s hard not to feel for him. Potrykus andBurge don’t stoop to asking us to necessarily “like” Marty, as so manyfilmmakers have with their angry young men, but by making him seem so real it’simpossible not to want to grab him, shake him, and figure him out. Unlike allof those other lovable losers, we don’t go on our merry way and easily forgetMarty Jackitansky. Advertisement