While outpromoting his latest film, "Chappie," filmmakerNeill Blomkamp, whoachieved great critical and commercial success with his 2009 debut"District 9," has made a couple of announcements that have attractedmuch attention from the fanboy set: his next project willbe a new entry in the venerable "Alien" franchise and he has admittedthat he feels that he messed up with his previous film, the hugelydisappointing sci-fi allegory "Elysium". Based on this, I can only assume thatwhen he hits the junket circuit in a couple of years to hype his"Alien" film, he will spend part of his time apologizing for"Chappie" as well because its failures are so pronounced that theymake the artistic sins of "Elysium" seem minor by comparison. Advertisement Accordingto the faux-news reports that open the film, the police force in near-futureJohannesburg, South Africa has been replaced with human-sized and heavily-armedrobots that, while not indestructible, are powerful enough to have inspired asteep drop in the crime rate. For Tetra Vaal, the defense firm charged withsupplying the robots, business is booming and other countries are set to placeorders as well. However, Deon (Dev Patel), the brilliant designer who createdthe robot cops, is somewhat disenchanted and wants to make a more meaningfulcontribution to society. To that end, it appears that he has stumbled upon away of endowing machines with true artificial intelligence so that they canlearn, create and feel just like actual humans. This does not go overparticularly well with his boss (Sigourney Weaver) and so, using the remains of bombed-out bot Scout 22, he decides toconduct some off-base experiments, arousing the suspicions of nasty officerival Vincent (Hugh Jackman), whose own prototype for a crime-fighting robothas been shunted aside, partly because of the success of Deon's creation andpartly because his creation looks like the ED-209 sans the gazelle-like graceand is controlled by a virtual-reality helmet that makes the user look like aparticipant in "VR.5" cosplay. Alas,while leaving the office, Deon is kidnapped by a trio of low-level thugs—Ninja(Ninja), Yo-Landi (Yo-Landi Visser) and Amerika (Jose Pablo Cantillo)—who areconvinced that he has the ability to switch off all the robot cops so that theycan commit a $20 million heist in order to repay a pressing debt to a violentlocal drug lord. Deon cannot do that but when they discover that he has a robotwith him, they demand that he get it running so that they can use it for theirown purposes. Deon successfully installs his AI program and revives the robot,now dubbed Chappie (and performed by Blomkamp regularSharlto Copley) andcoming across like a big metallic child that inspires some unexpectedlymaternal feelings from Yo-Landi. While she and Deon try to instill the blankslate that is Chappie with all the right things—intelligence, kindness, anartistic temperament and the ability to know right from wrong—the harsherNinja and Amerika show him the darker side of humanity in the hopes of gettinghim to help with their heist plans. About this time, Vincent gets wind ofChappie's existence and sets in motion a plan to neutralize the robot cops andplunge the city into chaos, a move that will eliminate his rival and force thecompany to let him deploy his creation to save the day. Spoiler alert: his planproves to be as ungainly as his creation and while Johannesburg is going up inflames, Chappie's increasing developed soul is torn between the lofty ideals ofhis creator or the baser instincts inspired by the real world. AlthoughI wasn't quite as over the moon in regards to "District 9" as somepeople, it was nevertheless an ambitious work that combined genre thrills witha thoughtful allegory about the horrors of apartheid. "Elysium" wasanother attempt at a science-fiction allegory, this time about the importance ofuniversal health care, but did so in such a absurdly heavy-handed manner thateven the most ardent supporters of the ACA found it to be a tedious slog.Presumably in response to the rejection of that film, Blomkamp and co-writerTerri Tatchell(his wife and collaborator on "District 9"), havelargely eschewed any grand political subtext this time around but haveneglected to bring in anything new or interesting as a replacement. The basicquestions posed here—can a machine somehow develop consciousness and, if so,what does that mean for humanity—are ones that have been explored in anynumber of films over the years, and"Chappie" brings nothing new to the table in this regard andeventually abandons all of its philosophical musings for a series of noisy butlargely anonymous action set-pieces. Advertisement One ofthe biggest problems with the film is that Chappie himself is pretty much atool, both literally and figuratively. The screen has seen any number of robotcreations that has managed to demonstrate remarkably human characteristics—HAL9000, WALL*E and Samantha from "Her" immediately leap to mind—butChappie, despite the best efforts by Blomkamp to humanize him (such as slappinga "REJECT" sticker on its forehead), is almost stunninglyunappealing. He may be like a child, but, if so, he is the kind of child whoseems to be in desperate need of Ritalin. He isn't very interesting from adesign perspective, his motor-mouthed (no pun intended) approach to everythingquickly grows grating, and, after a while, he is so unlikable that it isimpossible to give a whit about his transformation and what it means for usall. Thenagain, the screenplay hasn't exactly imbued its flesh-and-blood characters withrecognizable human qualities as well. As Chappie's creator, Patel is just meh, and itis always nice to see Sigourney Weaver in a genre film, but her appearance hereis far too brief and her character is written as too much of a dope to bebelievable as the CEO of anything. In a weird casting move, Ninja and Yo-LandiVisser, who in real life are members of the punk-rap-rave band Die Antwoord, areon hand to more or less play themselves (at least in the sense that the Beatlesplayed themselves in "Help") but whatever power they may display onthe stage does not transfer to film because they are as stridently annoying asChappie. Then there is poor Hugh Jackman, who is stuck playing the film's mostpoorly conceived character, a former soldier who hates Deon and his creations,believes that man should always be placed far above robots and is willing todestroy an entire city in order to get his way. The trouble with Vincent isthat even though he is the villain of the piece, his concerns over givingrobots the ability to think for themselves is actually kind of valid and a morehonest film would have admitted it. Instead, the screenplay nullifies this bymaking him into a cartoonish ogre, and to make sure we know that he is the badguy, he totes a gun, wears a mullet and is overtly religious to boot. "Chappie"is such a misconceived work from a once-celebrated science-fiction visionarythat I think that all the people who were lambasting the Wachowskis a few weeksago over "Jupiter Ascending" now owe them anapology—whatever that film's sins, it wasnevertheless a hugely ambitious attempt to create an original fantasy epic notbased on a video game or comic book that I thought worked more often than not."Chappie," by comparison, is an exhausting slog through overly familiarcliches that is nowhere near as profound or touching as it clearly thinks it isand is utterly lacking in the kind of intelligence and artistry that it sooften pays lip service to in the dialogue. At one point, an anguished Chappiescreams out "Why do you humans do this?"—while he is theoreticallycommenting on the inhumanity of man at this point, I couldn't help but think ofit as his plaintive comment on the film as a whole. Advertisement