In life, perhaps only a minority of people could be called,or would call themselves, true romantics. But in the cinema’s dark, it’sdifferent: Most viewers enlist in the cause of romance, whether reluctantly orwholeheartedly. That’s because movies, especially those dealing with romance,offer the lure of dreams. We want the spell to work, the charm to cast itsmagic, so that our hopes are vindicated in imagination even if they’re not inlife. French filmmakers are legendarily good at exploiting thissentimental wishfulness, and are so commendably willing to explore the heart’sconundrums for ordinary adults that we’re often inclined to go along withconceits in their films that might be hooted off the screen in other movies. Advertisement So it is inBenoit Jacquot’s “Three Hearts,” a curious,ultimately unsatisfying romantic comedy about two sisters in love with the sameman. The film opens with a classic meet-cute. Marc (Benoît Poelvoorde), a taxattorney, misses the last Paris train one night in a provincial town, so herepairs to the nearest bar, where he glimpses attractive, willowy brunetteSylvie (Charlotte Gainsbourg). When she leaves, he follows her onto the streetand strikes up a conversation that ends up resulting in romantic chemistryserious enough that they plan to meet in Paris a few days later, despitethe fact that she’s married. What’s odd about this scene is the striking mismatch betweenthe two people. Gainsbourg is one of France’s loveliest and most magneticactresses. Poelvoorde, on the other hand, is a paunchy, balding guy who herespends much of his screen time looking at his shoes. So you can see why hewould be drawn to her, but not the other way around. (Lest the reader suspectgender bias in that comment, the reviewer asked a female friend on leaving thescreening what she thought of Marc. She made an unpleasant expression anddescribed him as “a schlub.”) So do we reject the film at this point on believabilitygrounds, refuse to suspend disbelief any further? Hardly. The promise of aromantic payoff is strong enough in movies like this that most of us will stillgo along with Jacquot, waiting to see if he can really make the spell work. Whoknows, maybe he’s taunting us, daring us to decamp by making the premiserelatively far-fetched, even by this genre’s credulity-stretching standards. The writer-director is a confessed fan of classic Americanromantic melodramas such as Leo McCarey’s “An Affair to Remember,” so you won’tbe surprised to learn that the planned rendezvous between Marc and Sylvie neverhappens. He has a heart attack as he’s driving to meet her, and sheleaves the Jardin de Tuileries alone and disappointed. Advertisement This relatively brief part of the story effectively servesas a prologue. When the main part of the tale commences sometime later, Sylviehas moved to Canada with her husband but keeps in constant touch with herbeloved sister, Sophie (Chiara Mastroianni), who runs an antiques business intheir hometown and frequents the house of their mom (Catherine Deneuve). If youhaven’t already guessed what happens next, here it comes: In the course of hisbusiness, Marc meets Sophie and experiences the same chemistry that he did withher sister earlier. Sophie is so smitten with Marc that she dumps her man—who, like Sylvie’s husband, is markedly more attractive than the tax lawyer—and marries him. Naturally, much of the rest of the story teases us with thequestion of when the three main characters will discover their actualrelationships, and what this will do the sisters’ mutual affection, not tomention their feelings for their romantic partners. As you might expect,Jacquot spends lots of time drawing things out by having Marc and Sylvie justmiss glimpsing each other on Skype, Sylvie’s promised return to France beingdelayed, and so on. Could the story as described till now possibly have a payoffdandy enough to justify all the labored contrivances it entails? Possibly, butthat would almost certainly involve our believing in and really caring aboutthe characters. Which doesn’t happen here. As already indicated, the sisters’attraction to schlubby Marc doesn’t ring true from the first, and it doesn’tgrow any more credible as the film wends onward. Perhaps even more problematic, viewers aren’t given anystrong rooting interest in any side of the romantic triangle. Do we want Sophieand Marc to remain secure in their provincial marriage, or would we preferSylvie to come back and bust it up? And if we do hope for one woman to best hersibling, is that because we find one actress—not the character she plays,mind you—more attractive than the other? Such is the kind of question a cannydirector will avoid leaving in a viewer’s mind. Jacquot is known for writing appealing parts for actresses,and sometimes getting memorable performances from them. Here, his greatestasset is the believably shaded and alluring turn by the sylph-like Gainsbourg,one of Europe’s great screen presences at present. Mastroianni seems lesscomplex and compelling by comparison, and her real-life mom is given relativelylittle to do as her fictional mom, but who cares: she’s Catherine Deneuve, whocan do more with a raised eyebrow than most actors can with a hystericaltantrum. Advertisement