When you find out that a motion picture has had its titlechanged to the almost magnificentlygeneric “The Lovers” from a rather less plain but stillnot-exactly-staggeringly-original “Singularity,” you know that a post-productionconceptual shift of some magnitude has occurred. And post-production is prettymuch the last part of the filmmaking process in which to introduce that kind ofshift. Not to get too inside-baseball, but sometimes there’s a verygood reason that certain movies get stealthy on-demand releases during whatindustry members frequently refer to as “dumping season.” This very unfortunatefilm, directed byRoland Jofféfrom his own script (the story is from IndianscreenwriterAjey Jhankar), opens with some deep-sea diving action that recallsJames Cameron’s “Titanic”; as does the quest of the divers in question: theyare pursuing a particular artifact. In anyevent, one of the divers is stuck, and so team commanderJosh Hartnettgoesdown to rescue her (she’s his wife...oh, wait, now all of a sudden it’s “TheAbyss”) and in so doing almost drowns. Once Hartnett’s character from our-not-too-distant-future(lots of blue lighting and a sleek futuristic vehicle are the most prominentvisual signifiers of this time frame) flounders on life support, the movie goesback in time several hundred years, to India in the late 1700s, where a Britishcaptain namedJames Stewart(really!) also played by Hartnett, is engaged in alot of challenging-to-follow martial intrigue that leads him into a doomedromance with a regal warrior woman played byBipasha Basu, one of the premiereleading ladies of Bollywood. Advertisement The scenic cinematography byBen Nottis often beautiful,which distracts, at times, from the fact that the storyline is both convolutedin the most gratuitous way possible and that it’s enacted in the mostunengaging way imaginable. Every now and then one will be shaken awake by someof the most stultifying clichéd dialogue concocted in all of narrative moviehistory, to wit: “Tell me of this Captain Stewart.” “He is a leader of men.” “He inspires love in our people?” “Some people say so, father. “ “Then it will benefit us to arrange his death.” During an earlier exchange at a large table, some pompousbad guys conspire and contemplate getting over on the ostensibly good peoplethey require cooperation from: “The vast sum of money involved will mollifytheir scruples,” says one, and there’s haw-hawing all around. Little bits suchas these are the only things the movie offers to rouse a viewer from a stupor;then again, some of the sounds of stabbing during the movie’s occasionalbreakouts of martial violence are very ripe and wet and loud, which is alsonoteworthy; in every other respect, watching “The Lovers” is only a noteworthyexperience for the way the movie just evanesces as it goes on. For all theexpense of the production, it offers practically nothing in the way of eitheremotional or intellectual engagement, and once the viewer is finished withtrying to care about the plot, the only remaining question is why the film wasmade. My conclusion was that it had something to do with expected box officereturns in an international market, what with Basu toplining the cast;unfortunately for her, she looks pretty haggard throughout and is given littleopportunity to extend the charisma that made her a star on her continent.Similarly, Hartnett seems only to strike poses and draw blanks. I have notexpected much of anything from Joffé as a director since…well, ever, really, ashis only entirely watchable film, 1984’s “The Killing Fields,” had such astrong story and cast that Joffé’s refined-yet-lead-footed directorial approachcouldn’t kill it. If you think you have fond memories of “The Mission,” Irespectfully suggest it’s because you haven’t looked at it again in a while: Ihave, and it’s a drag. As has been everything after that. “The Lovers” is bothworse and perhaps better than a drag: it’s a tranquilizer. Advertisement