At onepoint in "Cymbeline," Michael Almereyda's modern-day take on theWilliam Shakespeareplay, the action stops for a minute for a scene featuringco-starMilla Jovovichsinging Bob Dylan's "Dark Eyes." Speaking asan enormous fan of both of them, I thought this union of two favorites in thepop-culture firmament would be worth the price of admission all by itself. Alas, it is not because most of the rest of the film surrounding it is a conceptually weak anddramatically muddled mess that has acquired a game and good cast and then giventhem precious little to do. Advertisement To befair, the basic material itself is not especially hot. Yes, it is Shakespearebut the play itself is little more than a rehash of elements that he has alreadyhandled with more insight in previous works ("Romeo & Juliet,""Othello," "Hamlet" and "As You Like It," to namea few) and is so plot-heavy that the characters feel more like traffic copstrying to move the story along than people about whom one is supposed to care. Many scholars have cited it as proof that Shakespeare wasgetting bored with his own work by this point in his career, though some, suchas Harold Bloom, have looked upon it a little more forgivingly by suggestingthat it was an example of Shakespeare deliberately spoofing himself. Whicheverschool of thought you subscribe to, this is not one of the Bard's morefrequently revived efforts and after watching this take on it, I can understandwhy. Theaction transposed to a modern-day American East Coast city, the film stars EdHarris as Cymbeline, the king of the Briton Motorcycle Gang, a group that hasforged an uneasy truce with the Roman police force that allows them to dobusiness without interference. The apple of his eye is his daughter, Imogen(Dakota Johnson), his only remaining child after the disappearance of his twosons and the heir to his kingdom. He is insistent that she marry Cloten (AntonYelchin), the son of his second wife, the Queen (Jovovich), but as the storyopens, he learns that Imogen has defied him by falling in love (and secretlymarrying) the penniless-but-true Posthumus (Penn Badgley). Cymbeline isoutraged by this and sends Posthumus into exile. The Queen is no happier eitherby this revelation as she is the one behind the plan for Imogen to marry Cloten, so that she may then kill both Cymbeline and Imogen and make her son theking. While thetruce between the Britons and Romans falls apart and leads to bloodshed onboth sides, Posthumus finds himself forced into a wager with the Iachimo (Ethan Hawke), an agitator who bets him that he canseduce Imogen and provide proof of the deed. Imogen manages to fend off hisadvances, but late one night, Iachimo fakes the evidence and the distraughtPosthumus orders aide Pisanio (John Leguizamo) to murder Imogen in revenge forher unfaithfulness. Pisanio cannot bring himself to do this and instead advisesImogen to disguise herself as a man and go into hiding, which leads her to thedoorstep of an old man (Delroy Lindo) and his two sons. This all leads to theusual array of Shakespearian plot twists--suicide, murder, war and magicalpotions that make people seem dead just long enough to cause a potentiallygrave misunderstanding or two. Advertisement This isAlmereyda's second cinematic stab at modern-day Shakespeare, the first beinghis acclaimed 2000 take on "Hamlet." Like that film, "Cymbeline" more or less preserves the text but updates everything else--gunsreplace knives, motorcycles replace horses, directions to a faraway land arelocated using Google and Iachimo offers proof of Imogen's unfaithfulnessthrough a seemingly incriminating selfie. However, his "Hamlet,"though not without its flaws, was a conceptually intriguing take on thematerial that found ingenious modern equivalents for the textual elements (suchas setting Hamlet's famous soliloquy of indecision while perusing the Actionaisle of the local video store) and came up with some nifty casting ideas toboot--whoever thought of castingBill Murrayas Polonius deserves some kind ofmedal as far as I am concerned. Bycomparison, "Cymbeline" is weird but in all of the wrong ways. Forone thing, the idea of setting the action within the ranks of a motorcycle gangis a relentlessly terrible idea for any number of reasons--there is no realsense of conflict, either within Cymbeline's ranks or with the Roman police,the notion of a man living like suburban royalty as the result of leading abike gang is hugely implausible and even if the other stuff worked, the conceptwould still invite too many comparisons to "Sons of Anarchy," anotherdrama about motorcycle gangs that had plenty of its own Shakespearianundertones to boot. (At one point, the film itself was set to be released underthe title "Anarchy" before saner heads prevailed and it returned toits original name.) For another, the focus on the test of Imogen's fidelityjust does not make any sense in this revised context and makes Posthumus seemsilly rather than tragic. The finale is also pretty much a train wreck; thereare so many plot threads waiting to be resolved that you can practically seethem in holding patterns waiting for their chance to touch down. Thecasting for "Cymbeline" is also all over the place. The moreexperienced actors, such as Harris, Hawke (who starred in Almereyda's"Hamlet") and Jovovich handle the text well but are hampered by flawsin the script. Harris' character is hard to believe, Hawke gets stuck with thedumbest aspect of the plot and Jovovich disappears for huge chunks of thestory. Meanwhile, the younger players struggle to find a hold on the materialand their characters. Badgley's Posthumus comes across as more of a dweeb thananything else, Yelchin's Cloten is just plain irritating and Dakota Johnson is as wooden here as Imogen as she was in"Fifty Shades of Grey," though she happily takes far less abuse thistime around, save for one inadvertent punch to the face. Advertisement MichaelAlmereyda is an interesting and ambitious filmmaker (his 1994 vampire film"Nadja" is one of the better contemporary riffs on the genre) whodoesn't work as often as he should. Therefore, it is doubly depressing that"Cymbeline" never quite catches fire, either as a film or as aconceptual experiment. In writing about the original play, Samuel Johnson oncesaid "To remark the folly of the fiction, the absurdity of the conduct,the confusion of the names and manners of different times, and the impossibilityof the events in any system of life, were to waste criticism upon unresistingimbecility, upon faults too evident for detection, and too gross foraggravation." Imagine what he would have thought if he had seen smartphones.