“The Cobbler” is almost fascinatingly awful enough torecommend. If one subscribes to the theory that you can learn as much from abad movie as from a good one, this one’s a master class in what not to do. Whatstarts off as purely harmless mediocrity piles on the narrative and filmmakingmistakes to such a degree that it’s like watching a train wreck…that burstsinto flames…and then another train crashes into it. There’s somethingperversely fascinating about a film that doesn’t just go off the rails but doesso in such misguided fashion. And it’s all the more remarkable when youconsider that “The Cobbler” was made by an undeniably talented filmmaker, theman who has given the world great films like “The Station Agent,” “The Visitor,”and “Win Win.” This film is so inferior to those works that it almost disprovesthe auteur theory on its own. Advertisement It starts off innocently enough. Max Simkin (Adam Sandler)is a quiet, kind cobbler in a New York neighborhood that is being drained ofits personality by big business. He keeps to himself, managing his little shoeshop, and taking care of his mother since dad disappeared years ago, leavinghim a story that he still doesn’t really feel is his own. Max is an observer,someone who sees lives going on around him, like the gorgeous model coupleoutside his shop, but he doesn’t really have to call his. One night, working on a pair of shoes dropped off by anoutspoken criminal named Ludlow (Method Man), Max’s machine breaks down. Hedigs an old one of his father’s out of the basement and repairs the shoes. Heslips them on, looks in the mirror, and, bam, he’s Ludlow. The transformationis purely superficial in that Max is exactly the same on the inside buteverything on the outside, including the voice, is of the owner of the shoes.Of course, Max uses the magical machine on every pair of shoes he can find, spendinga bit of time in the shoes of the DJ (Dan Stevens) with the model girlfriend,and even pretending to be his disappeared dad (Dustin Hoffman) so mom can see himone last time. For half the film, “The Cobbler” is a well-intentioned butdull affair—a modern fairy tale about stepping into someone else’s shoes thatdoesn’t do nearly enough with its thematically dense high concept. The piecehas no thematic resonance at all because writer/directorThomas McCarthyandco-writerPaul Sadofail to get beyond the superficial. We don’t learn anythingabout the people that Max becomes. In fact, the film is almost defiant in itsjudgment of books by their covers. He becomes the genetically blessed Stevensand a girl hits on him. He becomes his dad and his mom treats him as if he isher lost partner. “The Cobbler” suggests that walking a mile in someone else’sshoes will make you look like that person but not actually experience anythingelse about them. Advertisement Almost as if McCarthy and Sado can tell the first half isn’treally working, they blow up their concept into a quasi-superhero movie in thesecond half, as Max juggles shoes/characters in an attempt to stop a nefariousbusinesswoman (Ellen Barkin) who is trying to push locally-owned businesses outof the neighborhood. In a remarkably episodic film, this is where it jumps theshark in jaw-dropping fashion, a screenwriting mess that’s also poorly executed filmically.The lack of tonal consistency led to production values that have no personalityat all. Scenes are shot from flat, predictable angles, often from one side ofthe room, as if we’re looking at a bad theatre stage, on which boring sets havebeen designed. The film becomes remarkably lifeless, almost as if it’s fallingasleep with its audience, until a final act twist seals the deal in terms ofbad, manipulative screenwriting. The last few minutes are jaw-dropping—like asour cherry on a bad movie sundae. What’s so bizarre about “The Cobbler” is that it wasdirected by a man who, up to this point, had never helmed even a mediocre film,much less a disaster. If this was just another Happy Madison joint, it mightmake more sense, but Thomas McCarthy has proven himself deft at presenting uscomplex characters in films like “The Visitor” and “Win Win.” By the end ofthose pieces, we really felt like wehadwalked a mile in someone else’s shoes, and were richer for the experience. Only masochists are made richer by "The Cobbler".