Alex Gibneyis a filmmaker who takes well-reported,highly-documented stories and pulls them apart, examining them piece by pieceto find a further truth within them. With “Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room,”he didn’t so much expose the criminal business practices of one of the biggestcompanies in the world as much as he examined how they became normalized andthe fall-out that forever changed business. With “Mea Maxima Culpa: Silence inthe House of God,” he doesn’t so much offer new facts about pedophilia but tryand illuminate how this dark corner of human existence persisted. He is adocumentarian more interested in the environment that creates his subjects than the behavior of the subjects specifically. And so his controversial “GoingClear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief” is in some senses a perfect fitfor filmmaker and subject. Where has this controversial religion come from? How didit attain such popularity? And why is it such a part of the fabric ofHollywood, attracting major names likeJohn TravoltaandTom Cruise? ThatGibney doesn’t quite get all the answers to these questions isn’t as materialas it might be for other films. He’s tackling them as no one else could. Advertisement In his fashion, Gibney examines Scientology from anorganizational perspective—its history, its spokespeople, its allure—and yet hemakes it clear from the very beginning that this will also be a confessionalpiece, opening the film with voices and soundbites of those who know aboutScientology from the inside. The credits of the film mimic an important part ofthe Scientology experience: auditing, in which members of the church discusspainful memories and deep-seated secrets in order to expel them from theirbeing. The idea is one common in therapy: only through examination can wediscard that which is weighing us down. Consider “Going Clear” an audit for theformer leaders and most prominent members of the Church of Scientology, nowwilling to come forward and allege abuse, intimidation, and brainwashing. At first glance, Scientology is inherently appealing.Celebrities like John Travolta have espoused how its very purpose is to "furtherjoy." It promises a journey of self-discovery in which you will not only shedthe mental and emotional weights that keep you down but become smarter,stronger, and better as a human being. Who doesn’t want that? Who has neverbeen attracted to something that promised personal improvement?Paul Haggiswasat a certain down point in his life and the Oscar-winning filmmaker is one ofGibney’s most engaging subjects, detailing not just why he left Scientology butwhat attracted him to it in the first place. In 1952, L. Ron Hubbard, a prolific sci-fi writer, tookseveral of the concepts with which he was playing in his genre fiction andcreated a religion. Gibney’s film even goes as far as to assert, through thewritings of Hubbard’s ex-wife, that the writer crafted the religion out ofprofitable motivations, noting that the tax-free status of the organization wasthe way to wealth. “Going Clear” paints a portrait of a deeply troubled manin LRH, someone who wrote asking for mental health and suffered severeparanoia. But he was also charismatic and smart enough to convey a vision of abetter life to millions of people who turned “Dianetics,” the Bible of Scientology,into a worldwide phenomenon. Advertisement Flash forward a quarter-century as the Church really takesoff in the ‘70s and ‘80s, helped in no small part from celebrity members likeTravolta and Tom Cruise. Gibney pulls no punches with his celebrity section of “GoingClear,” asserting that auditing sessions with members of the Church arerecorded and can therefore be used as blackmail to keep people in theorganization and actively recruiting people to join it and, this is key, donating money. There’san interview with a key member of the power structure of Scientology fordecades who asserts that he was assigned with facilitating the break-up withNicole Kidmanto get Cruise back to the church from which she had pulled him. Dothey have secret, private videos of celebrity auditing sessions keeping thesecelebrities “in line”? Someone even goes as far as to call Travolta “the church’scaptive.” Not unlike his other exposes of unchecked power, “Going Clear”gets angrier as it goes along, especially when it gets to members of the Churchbeing asked to disassociate from loved ones deemed SPs (Suppressive People) andintimidation of those who dare speak out against the organization. Although bythis point, we’ve already heard about the former spokesperson who neededrehabilitation and who claims she was essentially sent to a prison camp in theScientology Headquarters, at which her baby was forced into deplorableconditions to the point that she had to flee by speeding car. So the anger iseasily mustered. Although the chapter in which former enforcers of smearcampaigns discuss the tactics used did send a slight chill through my screeningroom as I remembered film critics who dared write about the film when itpremiered at Sundance getting angry letters. I don’t think they can go aftereveryone who reviews the film or watches it this weekend in theaters orstarting March 29thon HBO. At least I hope not. Gibney crams as much material as possible into a quick twohours (he really knows how to edit and pace a piece like this one as it feelsmuch shorter) and yet, to be fair, there’s still an angle missing just byvirtue of the fact that he couldn’t get anyone from the Church of Scientologytoday on camera. He reportedly tried to contact leader David Miscavige,Travolta, Cruise, Kidman, and many of the other major players in his story, butwas denied or ignored. However, if one is to take these attempts as truthful,what does it say about an organization that’s completely unwilling to commenton its own practices or accusations against it? As we’ve learned from Gibneybefore, it is when power structures go silent in the face of criticism that weneed be most fearful. Advertisement