Ditching the twisting high concepts of works like “Unknown”(amnesia!) and “Non-Stop” (one flight!), action starLiam Neesonand director JaumeCollet-Serra have crafted their most satisfying work to date by sticking to atried-and-true crime movie template, and allowing a talented cast and tightproduction values to be the only high concept they need. “Run All Night” isn’tperfect, but it’s surprisingly satisfying on its own terms, elevated by abetter-than-average ensemble and some razor-sharp editing to cut through anynagging questions about the plot. More than he’s been allowed to do in eitherCollet-Serra vehicle before this one, Neeson gets to portray a real characterhere, a man who may have once had a particular set of skills but has seen thendulled by age, regret and whiskey. “Run All Night” is proof that quality actionfilms don’t really need to reinvent the wheel each time out as long as theymake it spin this smoothly. Advertisement Jimmy Conlon (Neeson) used to be a notorious mob enforcer.If he knocked on your door, you knew you were in trouble. Rumored to be behindover a dozen murders at the behest of the infamous Shawn Maguire (Ed Harris),Conlon doesn’t have much left to live for. He’s the guy who wakes up in the barthe next morning and just starts drinking again, forced to beg Shawn’s sonDanny (Boyd Holbrook) for money and drunkenly play Santa Claus at the MaguireChristmas party. The man who once was feared is now openly mocked by a younger,tougher generation of bad guys. Jimmy also lost all touch with his son Mike(Joel Kinnaman), who is trying to live a straight life as a limo driver withhis wife (Genesis Rodriguez) and two kids (with a third on the way). The first act of “Run All Night” is really the arc of twosons—one trying to get away from the criminal underworld and one diving asdeeply as possible into it. As Danny, the very talented Boyd Holbrook is all twitchy, nervous energy, the kind of dangerous sociopath who seemscapable of doing whatever it takes to gain the respect of his father throughcriminal notoriety. To that end, he brings heroin into their world. Dad saysno, but Albanian heroin dealers don’t like to be pushed out of a possiblecriminal enterprise. It just so happens that the dealers hire Mike to drivethem to a meeting with Danny that goes horribly awry. Before you know it, Dannyis dead, and Mike is a target of everybody in the criminal underworld, includinga high-priced assassin played with effective cool by Common, and only his estrangeddad can keep him safe till morning. Neeson does arguably the best work of his action career herein that he captures a man who doesn’t just pop to life as a killing machineagain but has the muscle memory to get the job done one last time. Jimmy maystumble through subway tunnels but he can still choke a man out and fire aperfect shot when he needs to. And the actor rises above the potential cliché ofthe criminal redemption arc in the way he doesn’t allow the potential melodramato sink into his portrayal. His take on Jimmy is a man doing what needs to bedone, not necessarily to right the wrongs of the past but because there’snothing else he can do at this point. And watching Neeson and Harris in scenestogether, especially a great, tense meeting in the middle of the piece, is asurprising joy. They’re both great here in that neither overplays the hero orvillain archetype. Jimmy, the good guy, is a murderer, while Shawn, the bad guy, is emotionally mourning the loss of his child. They are far more complex than they would have been in the hands of otheractors. Advertisement “Run All Night” is also subtly elevated by a top-notch teambehind the camera, especially editorCraig McKay, a two-time Oscar nominee for “Reds”and “The Silence of the Lambs.” For at least an hour, “Run All Night” hums—to be fair, there’sa bit of a sag in the middle and the entire piece runs too long at nearly twohours. But take note of the wayMcKayand Collet-Serra orchestrate a great sequencein a subway station, creating a rhythm between the cops trying to find Mike andthe bad guys coming after Jimmy. Or look at the great car chase scene, which isshot in a bit too much close-up (as are a few of the fights), but has avisceral pace to it that makes it impossible to look away. Or watch one of the final sequences in a train yard and the way it perfectly fits together to build tension. There’s a tempo to “RunAll Night” that really serves as the entertaining foundation of the whole film,and it’s what so many boring action films lack. Some of “Run All Night” doesn’t make a lot of sense and Iwished for a little more grit and a little less polish in some of its darkerbeats (although viewers should be warned that this piece doesn’t shy away fromextreme violence at times). There’s also a fine line between entertainment andbeing a bit too on-the-nose when you choose to set a shoot-out in an Irish barto The Pogues, but the film had won me over by that point. And that’s when youreally know an action film has worked overall—when its flaws are beaten downlike the guys who choose to cross Jimmy Conlon by what works.