If youlook at the title of "It Follows," an unsettling, and deservedlycelebrated new horror film, and can't tell what the movie is about, then themovie is already working. "It Follows," the second feature bywriter/directorDavid Robert Mitchell("The Myth of the AmericanSleepover"), works as well as it does because its creators keep viewers atarm's length. It's a ghost story,though dead people don’t necessarily haunt its suburbanprotagonists. And it's about teenagers who have sex, though it's neither asimple celebration nor condemnation of under-age necking. Instead, "ItFollows" both prolongs and heightens the potency of high school-age fearsuntil they appear to be ancient existential terrors. In that sense, "ItFollows" is not really about sex, but an unbearable, unsinkable mood thatdescends when you come of age, and never completely dissipates, not even afterclimactic sexual, or other violent acts. Advertisement Since"It Follows" concerns the never-ending state of hormonal crisis wecall "adolescence," the film is about illogical actions that havelong-lasting consequences. Jay (Maika Monroe), a quintessentially sullen teen,learns this soon after she has sex with, and is summarily abducted by Hugh(Jake Weary). After he chloroforms and ties up Jay, Hugh deliberately, butimpatiently tells her everything he knows: Jay is the latest victim of asexually-transmitted haunting. She must pass this burden on to another personby having more sex. If she doesn't, she will be relentlessly pursued by someoneshe knows...or maybe it will be a stranger...possibly living and/or dead.Whoever follows Jay—it varies from encounter to encounter—cannot be seen byanyone else, but can definitely hurt her. Jay passesthis knowledge on to worried friends, like stymied love interest Paul (KeirGilchrist). And they consequently try to help Jay banish whatever it is that'safter her. Don'tpanic: "It Follows" is not nearly as obtuse as it sounds. Ifanything, it's a little frustrating in its limited view of kids that are alwaysconcerned with, but never really thinking about sex. Jay and her friends takefor granted the fact that they're living in a constant state of excitement.That's a given, so Mitchell doesn't exoticize, or exaggerate that aspect oftheir characters. He does, however, refuse to explain what Jay feels when she'spursued by various pale, zombie-like followers. Jay's not really introspective,so she only cursorily talks about her naive pre-sexual expectations. All weknow is that she expects sex to be momentous and/or freeing, as she airily saysto herself after she and Hugh fool around. Instead, it's a momentaryrespite that's inevitably followed by a series of confrontations with peopleshe may or may not know (aka adulthood).Thehorror at the heart of "It Follows" isn't a singular threat, but thevague knowledge that nothing lasts forever. Jay and her friends try to connectwith each other physically, but only wind up realizing that, while their bondsare not skin-deep, they're also not liberating. Here's where "ItFollows" gets frustratingly—but pointedly—murky: if life after sex ispurgatory, does that mean sex is bad, or that sex simply isn't a cure-all forjuvenile awkwardness? The latter seems more likely given an unnamed bookpassage that Jay's loyal friend Yara (     Olivia Luccardi    ) reads aloud later in thefilm. "Your soul will leave your body and you will no longer be aperson," Yara tells Jay, underscoring Jay's implicit understanding of sexas an out-of-body vanishing act. Jay's haunting either frustrates thisvague fear, or confirms it. Either way, she is pursued, and may never know why.Advertisement Thatkind of primordial dread is embedded in the film's visual style. Mitchell'scamera visually unifies the characters' shared world, either through staticpanoramas that show several characters occupying the same space, or trackingshots and/or pans that follow characters from one end of the room to the other.We're also given the impression of infinite space whenever Mitchell's camerastands in for, or is positioned inside Paul or Jay's cars. In these scenes, theroad that stretches out in front of them/us is long, and there is never a setdestination in sight. That concept is far more unnerving than any of the film'smore traditional scare scenes, though those are pretty good too (don't look atme, experience them for yourself). No, what's most disquieting about "ItFollows" is the way it presents sex as neither abnormal, nor beneficial.By contrast, sex in "It Follows" indiscriminately draws pre-existingemotions out, like a cruel genie that can never be returned to his lamp.