“Nightlight” is a perfect example of a film with interestingideas that are totally smothered by poor execution. It is one of Roger’s mosttimeless critical dictums that it is not what a movie is about but how it isabout it that matters. And while watching “Nightlight” I kept thinking aboutelements of it that I liked but they were almost entirely conceptual. Onecannot judge a film by its concept but how the filmmakers execute it, and thefilmmaking here ranges from mediocre to remarkably aggravating to downrighthideous. Advertisement The Covington forest is one of those locations of urbanlegend for local teenagers. It’s rumored to be haunted by the troubled souls ofthe surprisingly high number of adolescents who have taken their lives withinit over the years, including a classmate of a quintet of teens about to playsome games in the middle of the night. Robin (Shelby Young), Nia (ChloeBridges), Chris (Carter Jenkins), Ben (Mitch Hewer) and Amelia (Taylor Murphy)brave the woods with only their flashlights and the moon to guide them.DirectorsScott BeckandBryan Woodsshoot what follows found-footage stylefrom the perspective of the flashlights, only seeing what it can illuminate,which allows for some interesting perspective games but also makes for trulyugly camerawork of the “shaky cam as teens run terrified around a forest”variety. During at least half of “Nightlight” one can barely tell what the hellis even happening, which is by design but also makes for an experience that’sas visually unappealing as anything in years. “The Blair Witch Project” is anatural comparison point, but that movie snuck in some very strong visualcompositions to off-set its DIY aesthetic. No such luck here. Back to the “story.” These five “Breakfast Club” wannabesare in Covington to tell ghost stories and play flashlight games. They foolaround on a train track, play Truth or Dare, and eventually get to the titulargame, which is essentially a nighttime version of Hide and Seek. Four of themhide while the fifth is blindfolded. He or she then tries to find the rest,only shouting “Nightlight” when the fear of being truly alone in the middle ofnowhere becomes too much to bear. Of course, here’s where “Nightlight” revealsat least part of its hand. These poor kids aren’t alone. The middle act of “Nightlight” hints at what the film couldhave been and threatens to work as true horror oddity. Without spoilinganything, and I’m not sure I could if I tried, “Nightlight” is a hard film todecipher, very purposefully so. It’s not your traditional Slasher in the Woodspiece, nor is it even a standard ghost story by modern film terms. It’s justweird. There are wolves, bats, a couple of the girls get fevers and pass out,trees fall—there are decidedlystrangethings going on in the Covington woods, but I like that the filmmakers don’tput too much effort into defining or explaining them. It’s no mere hauntedforest movie and it starts to take on existential qualities—how long have theybeen there? Were they ever not there? Are they haunting each other? What theHECK is going on? Advertisement That sense of disorientation and confusion in which “Nightlight”looks like it might be about to click into something more engaging doesn’t lastbecause the narrative gets more traditional, but more so because the filmmaking is constantly sabotaging what works. There’s a greatpiece involving overhead lights that go on and off in just the right timing toreveal You Know What that’s really quite effective, but it has to end with aloud use of score and shaky cam. Someone should remake “Nightlight” without thefound footage aesthetic and an actual focus on visual composition (they mightwant to rewrite some of the fakey teen dialogue too). Then viewers wouldn’t beso turned off by how this movie is about what it’s about.