I’m giving this movie half a star more than I really want tobecause I’m aware that there are many contemporary moviegoers who are wireddifferently than I am. “Man From Reno”—reviewers are going to almostreflexively want to call it “The Man From Reno,” but once they’ve actually gotthe movie in mind they’ll be reminded there’s a good reason that’snotthe title—is an intricately, evendensely, plotted mystery/thriller that casts an unusual spell from its openingscene.Pepe Sernaplays Paul Del Moral, a sheriff in a small town south of SanFrancisco. Out on a casual patrol one fog-shrouded evening, he finds an abandonedcar, reports on it, drives on, and is stunned when a man bounces off hiswindshield. He brings the fellow to a hospital. The victim, a Japanese fellowin his 30s, is out cold. Advertisement The movie cuts to a press conference in Japan. Young authorAki Akahori (Ayako Fujitani) is being feted on the occasion of her latestnovel, which she tells her publicist will be the last featuring her popular creation, the seemingly Columbo-esque avuncular detective “Inspector Takabe.”Freaked out by too much attention, and possibly something else, Aki hightailsit to…San Francisco. Without telling anyone. An impromptu meeting with some oldfriends gives her a chance to show off some chops-in-deduction, traits theviewer is meant to believe she imbues her fictional creation with. But Aki’snot as cocky as all that. Toying with a straight razor in her hotel roombathtub, she’s clearly in distress. Maybe the charming stranger who approachesher in the hotel bar, also Japanese, can provide some distraction if notsalvation. For a while the two narratives, that of Sheriff Del Moraland Aki, run on alternating parallel tracks. Co-writer/directorDave Boyleactually keeps the viewer guessing with respect to timelines; as various(unseen) Asian men keep turning up in different states of distressed being, andAki meets various other harried Japanese males, one is apt to wonder if themovie’s playing some sort of staggered-time game. As it happens, it’s not. OnceDel Moral and Aki find each other the plot both deepens and thickens. Serna, witha good-humored gravitas that brings to mindJason Robards, Jr., and Fujitani,whose combination of vulnerability and sharpness is spectacularly appealing,make a really intriguing team of investigators. And that’s part of the problem with the film, at least forme. And here I must pause, and ponder the ethics of the spoileralert. This should serve as a signal for any reader with a powerful interest inwatching the movie to stop reading now. Still reading? Okay. Well, I’m not going to give anything away,at least not directly. Instead, I shall comment on the general topic of GenreConvention and what I consider acceptable ways of Breaking Genre Convention.Any of you folks out there remember a 2008 Korean movie called “The Chaser?”Really brutal, engrossing, race-against-time thriller that broke genreconvention in a lot of ways, not least of which was making its titularprotagonist the most unappealing character you could evernot-want-to-but-nonetheless-be-compelled-to-root-for in a movie ever. Which waskind of exhilarating. But then…Well, sometimes a movie oversteps its boundariesin an attempt to be “different,” and sometimes that overstepping is a gravemiscalculation. Advertisement The last section of “Man From Reno” takes the movie intoterritory explored by the original “The Vanishing” and, of course, DavidFincher’s “Zodiac.” Legitimate avenues, arguably, but I have to admit, as aviewer who was engrossed and invested in the characters, said exploration endedup really pissing me off. But what if I’m wrong to be pissed off? Hence, mythree-star rating of the movie as opposed to the two-and-a-half I’d LIKE togive it. I’d really love (OK, maybe “love” isn’t the right word) to discussthis issue with viewers once they’ve had a chance to see “Man From Reno.” Genrefans ought to check it out post haste. I’m one myself, and my admiration forthe superb conception and execution of the film goes hand in hand withdisappointment and irritation. My question for myself is, do I have a criticalleg to stand on, or am I taking the movie too personally? I have to give itcredit for even making the question come up in the first place.