Spoiled rich people have been awful for centuries and ourtheatre, literature, and film has been reminding us of this fact withregularity. To this pile of moralizing fiction about the soulless elite, we cannow addLone Scherfig’s “The Riot Club,” adapted from the play “Posh” by LauraWade by the author herself. The play caused something of a stir when itpremiered in 2010, in no small part because it was deemed to be a commentary onthe actual Bullingdon Club, an all-male “Briternity” if you will, of menbehaving badly. The immediacy of real-time, horrendously escalating behavior ona stage does not make the transition smoothly to film, partially because we’veseen stories like this so often before but also because of tonal and pacingmistakes made by Scherfig and a cast of overly similar young men who start toblur together. It’s also a film with a muddled message in that it places these raucous,intellectual, smart people on a pedestal and then wags a finger at the audiencefor ever liking 90% of them. It’s a film that seems to have no further pointthan to remind us that some powerful jerks were once powerful jerk kids. Pointtaken, but it’s not cinematically satisfying. AdvertisementMax Irons(son of Jeremy) gets the most memorable role asMilo Richards, a first-year student at Oxford University who is quickly drawnto two people: Lauren (Holliday Grainger), a beautiful fellow first-year whoforms a relationship with Milo despite her lower social status economically andformer Westminster schoolmate Hugo (Sam Reid), who proposes that Milo join anelite group to which he belongs: The Riot Club. The rules of The Riot Club aresimple. It must always have ten members. The ten members must come fromcertain, elite schools like Westminster. And the ten members must drinkheartily from the cup of life. In the prologue, in which we see the formationof The Riot Club, a toast is made that we shall “Eat till we are sick at the full table of life and never fade fromglory.” For a long first act, Scherfig and Wade depict this motto invivid color. The initiation of Milo and fellow new member Alistair (SamClaflin) plays like a hundred fraternity pledge weeks we’ve seen in Americancinema down to the vandalism of their rooms and the forcing them to ingestbodily fluids. They run around Oxford saying annoying things like “totally f**king legend” and we wait forthe inevitable turn. Will these bad boys get their comeuppance and realize theerror of their ways? Milo is clearly set up as the only one with a consciencewhile Alistair is his opposite, a young man whose brother was a legendary RiotClub member and he has big, gross shoes to fill. It all builds to the actual adaptation of the play, whichcomes about 45 minutes in and takes place in a dinner club that the boys haverented for the night as a party to celebrate Milo and Alistair’s induction.They take over a back room, and one can tell that the seeds of resentment,jealousy, and classism that Wade has planted are about to be watered. Theintroductory act and this centerpiece of the film feel like different projects.The characters, the class issues, the narrative purpose is more distinct.Still, the message of the film remains muddled even as vile words give way todespicable actions. We are meant to like Milo basically because he has agirlfriend and hesitates, only slightly, in the face of committing heinousactivity. It’s a thinness of character that feels about as superficial as anyof the Riot Club member’s choices. And too much of the behavior, especially inthe first hour, is portrayed as glamourous. These are beautiful people doingoutrageous things and the turn toward real darkness in the final act feelsmanipulative more than organic. Advertisement To be fair, there are some strong performance here by thetwo gentlemen given real characters (Irons & Claflin…the rest truly blurtogether, making one of their victims' assertions that he couldn’t tell themapart a bit of self-criticism on the film) and Grainger. And Scherfig gives afew sequences the right degree of righteous indignation at the behavior of boyswho know they can pay their way out of any immorality. It’s just not enough tojustify the journey into the immorality that resides in the educational historyof many of the world’s power players. Yes, powerful young jerks become powerful adult jerks and there’s little justiceto it all. It's a tale as old as time, and the telling here isn't engaging enough to hear it again.