Althoughbest known as the director of such celebrated films as "Kings of theRoad," "Paris, Texas," "Wings of Desire" and"Until the End of the World," filmmakerWim Wendershas also carvedout a second career for himself as a documentarian with a special focus onartistic endeavors and the people behind them. Over the years, he has taken alook at such diverse subjects as the life and work of directorsNicholas Ray("Lightning Over Water") andYasujiro Ozu("Tokyo-Ga"),fashion designer Yohji Yamamoto ("Notebooks on Cities and Clothes"),musical history past and present ("Buena Vista Social Club,""Ode to Cologne: A Rock 'N' Roll Film" and "The Soul of aMan") and choreographer Pina Bausch ("Pina"). For his latestdocumentary, "The Salt of the Earth," one of the nominees for thisyear's Oscar for Best Documentary, Wenders trains his camera on photographerSebastiao Salgado and the result, though not without flaws, is an invigoratingand interesting observation of the man, his work and the entire medium ofphotography. Advertisement As thefilm reveals, the Brazilian-born Salgado originally studied economics andworked for the World Bank in France after being exiled from his home country in1969, before deciding to give it all up in order to pursue a career inphotography. After his first major project, a photographic chronicle of SouthAmerica that allowed him to at least get near to his homeland (his exile wouldeventually end in 1980), he began a series of expansive projects in which heused his keen eye and ability to create striking images to create works that allowed viewers to bearwitness to glimmers of hope and humanity in the face of almost unimaginablemisery. "The Workers," for example, famously illustrated suchlocations as a massive Sierra Pelada mine and the countless people employed todig out the gold in the hopes that their back-breaking labor will one day payoff and the burning oil fields of Kuwait in the wake of Desert Storm."Sahel," which he produced in conjunction with Doctors WithoutBorders, looked at the famine in Ethiopia and the attempt by many to journey towhat they hoped to be a better life in the Sudan. In a similar vein, "Exodus"looked at the plight of refugees from Rwanda and Yugoslavia during theirrespective troubles in the Nineties. Having"seen into the heart of darkness" (as Wenders puts it in hisoccasionally purple narration) for so long, a burned-out Selgado returned toBrazil to the drought-stricken remains of his family's once-thriving farm andembarked on a plan of replanting and reviving the land that he dubbed"Instituto Terra." Not only did this effort help begin to bring thefarm back to life, it would spread, first to other parts of Brazil and thenworldwide. It would also lead to Salgado's most recent project, a collaborationwith son Juliano (himself a documentarian who receives a co-directing credithere) entitled "Genesis" that took them from Papua New Guinea toSiberia to chronicle lands and people who have managed to retain their naturalways in the face of the planet's seemingly unstoppable march towardsdestruction that stands in blessed relief to the horrors he had shown in thepast. One ofthe challenges that any documentarian must face in making a film about anartist in a particular field is to figure out a way to channel that person'scraft into meaningful cinematic terms while still remaining true to the workbeing examined. Wenders pulls this off through a couple of fascinating artisticchoices. While the black-and-white cinematography (Juliano Selgago shot thecolor footage) that he employs may not be that surprising to fans of his work(it is a choice that he has employed with great skill over the years, especiallyin the visually stunning "Wings of Desire"), his use of it this timearound in collaboration with cinematographerHugo Barbiercertainly evokes thesimilarly monochromatic look of Salgado's work, especially in the distinctmethods of employing light, shadow and space in the compositions. Anotherstriking idea that Wenders deploys here is to project several of Selgado's mostfamous images in a way that allows Selgado's face to appear to emerge from theworks themselves as he offers up memories of those particular shoots. Advertisement I do havea couple of quibbles with "The Salt of the Earth," however. For one,while it does make a strong case for Salgado's undeniable artisticachievements, it does not really go into the nuts and bolts of hisprocess—there is nothing to speak of regarding his photographic influences orhow he actually goes about capturing his images. More troublingly, althoughsome critics have charged him with transforming the miseries of the Third Worldinto attractive images for Westerners to gaze at in art galleries, there is nodiscussion of the moral and ethical repercussions of his work to be had here.Although they do not fatally damage the film as a whole, their absence doesleave a bit of a hole at the center of the proceedings that cannot be denied.For the most part, however, "The Salt of the Earth" is a visuallystunning and oftentimes affecting tribute to one artist from another.