Bradley CooperandJennifer Lawrencehave brought suchenergy and chemistry to their relationships in their scenes together in “SilverLinings Playbook” and “American Hustle” that viewers may be tempted to givetheir latest collaboration some attention despite the stories ofpost-production drama and bad buzz that has accompanied it. I certainlyapproached it with an It Can’t BeTHATBad attitude, largely due to my admiration for its stars, but also because I’verespected directorSusanne Bier’s work in the past (particularly “Brothers” and“After the Wedding”). Ten minutes in, one can tell something is wrong with “Serena”.By the misguided ending, it’s a flat-out disaster, the kind of film that itscast and crew hope gets buried as quickly as possible as they race to move onto other projects. Given the fact that it was filmed almost three years ago,Cooper and Lawrence have likely forgotten they made it by now. Follow theirlead. Advertisement It is Depression-era North Carolina and George Pemberton(Cooper) seems to be one of the few successful businessmen in his mountainousregion, running a flourishing timber empire. With the assistance of a businesspartner named Buchanan (David Dencik) and a spiritually-guided hunter namedGalloway (Rhys Ifans), the Pemberton name is becoming well-known, although thelocal Sheriff (Toby Jones) suspects something is afoot. Into this empire fallsa Lady MacBeth in the form of Serena Shaw (Jennifer Lawrence), who quicklybecomes Serena Pemberton (over such memorable lines as “I think we should be married.” Smile. End scene.) Serena rubs everyone but George the wrong way. She bargesinto the lumber company ordering people around and accusing them of doing sixmonths of work in nine months. She is clearly designed as a force of change,first feeling competition for George’s business from Buchanan and then feeling competitionfor his legacy from a townswoman who happens to be the mother to George’sillegitimate child. But Serena, despite Lawrence’s best efforts isn’t acharacter. She has melodramatic emotions and plot twists forced upon her withno depth or thematic resonance to any of it. She bends to the will of amanipulative narrative as if no one ever paused to answer questions of motiveor back story for this character. Why does she feel so strongly for George? Whydoes she take center stage in one scene but pull back in another? She ismaddeningly inconsistent, and so the film has a thematic vacuum in the middleof its narrative. Who is the title character and why do we care about her shouldbe two of the first questions asked when crafting a screenplay like “Serena”.They never were here. It doesn’t help that Bier finds a way to over-direct andunder-direct in alternately frustrating manners. The first act is filled withan overuse of score, gauzy camerawork and slow-mo montages of people ridinghorseback and making love by candlelight. But as the narrative gets darker anddeath enters this little world, Bier loses the romantic, old-fashionedfilmmaking style, and the entire affair just becomes dour and depressing, whichis all the more startling given the two typically-vibrant actors who star init. None of it feels organic, genuine, or even moderately entertaining. It is afilm in which performers and crew go through the motions in such a way that onecan sense that they knew, long before production wrapped, that something waswrong. Maybe that’s why it took so long to come out. Even the people who madeit didn’t want to finish it. Advertisement