The Ukrainian film “Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors” won almostevery, award in sight on the 1964 film festival circuit. But it’s become evenmore important in recent years, as a reminder not only of a talented director -Sergei Parajanov- but also of the restrictive Soviet approach to the arts. Aftermaking a film that won awards in London, New York, San Francisco, Mar del Plataand Montreal, you see, Parajanov didn’t go on to become one of Russia’s leadingdirectors. He went on to become a political prisoner, charged with the usualthings Soviet dissidents are sent away for. He’s in the fourth year of afive-year sentence, which he more or less brought upon himself with a fieryaddress to an artists conference at which he called for an end to socialistrealism and the beginning of more subjective, personal Soviet films. Advertisement “Shadowsof Forgotten Ancestors” could stand as an example of the sort of film he wascalling for. It’s one of the most unusual films I’ve seen, a barrage of images,music and noises, shot with such an active camera we almost need seatbelts. Inthe Soviet Union, nationalism and regional identities are still highly chargedforces. And Parajanov’s film is overtly regional: He celebrates the births,marriages, deaths and folk customs of the people of the Carpathians. Theirholidays and festivals seem filled with the energy of countless Zorbas, butthen there are the long days of labor, and Parajanov follows them through longwinters, storm-swept springs and blistering summers. Hisstory follows the life and death of Ivan, whose childhood sweetheart slips froma mountain trail and drowns in the river below. Ivan grows morose andsecretive, but finally does settle down and marry a strikingly beautiful woman.Even then he’s not happy: They can’t have children, and in their superstitionthey consult witches and the supernatural. Ivan himself becomes obsessed withthe notion that his first sweetheart will be miraculously restored to him, andthere is a tense scene while he’s praying with his wife and adds the words“…and the drowned” after the prayer for the dead. Parajanov’svisual style is sometimes bursting with life, sometimes merely overwrought. Apoint-of-view shot, for example, has the camera swooping straight down as atree falls on young Ivan’s father. Other shots zoom in and out of forests andbarnyards and celebrations, and during violent scenes he sometimes interruptsshots with freeze frames and tints his film; during a death scene,blood-drenched horses leap across the screen. A few of these pyrotechnics cango a long way, and there were times in “Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors” when Ithought they went too far. ButParajanov has a genuine gift. He has the kind of heedless energy you glimpse insome of the early work ofMartin Scorsese, pounding camerawork so filled withitself it can hardly contain the story. And for anyone who’s interested in theUkrainian culture and customs of perhaps a century ago, “Shadows of ForgottenAncestors” is a treasure, a repository of costumes, masks, superstitions andbeliefs, courtship customs and the sufferings of short lives with too much workin them. Advertisement