Hal Hartley’s often fascinating “Ned Rifle” feels like avery conscious nod to the films that made its writer/director famous in thelate ‘80s and early ‘90s while also serving as a commentary on moving on frompast successes and failures to face the future head on. It is the work mostreminiscent of his quirky, clever character studies like “The UnbelievableTruth”, “Trust” and “Simple Men” in decades, and reminded me why Hartley was soformative on my view of independent cinema in high school. Like those films, “NedRifle” has a jangly, unique energy, as people bounce off each other and then pause to philosophically ask what the bouncing means. Dialogue comes in sporadicbursts, edging on being too self-conscious for the narrative to holdtogether (as often happened in his later films) but there’s such genuineaffection for the characters of “Ned Rifle” that it never falls apart, even asthese people sometimes sound like they’re commenting on other films, filmmakers and the artistic process in general.This is also Hartley at his most loosely hilarious in years, reuniting hisfavorite actors and finding a new one who seems born for the timing of hiscomedy. “Ned Rifle”, the final chapter in a strange trilogy with “Henry Fool” and “FayGrim”, is a movie about damaged people coming to terms with their damage byturning to others. And it’s Hal Hartley’s best movie in years. Advertisement The title character is the son of the title characters fromthe other two films: Edward Rifle (Liam Aiken), who has been living in witnessprotection with a very emotionally supportive reverend (Hartley regularMartin Donovan) for thelast several years while mom was in prison. One very interesting element of “NedRifle” is how Hartley approaches religion without the cynicism or derisionoften seen in independent cinema. Ned is a deeply religious young man whocarries a bible and remains chaste in the face of regular temptation. ButHartley doesn’t turn this trait into an object of comedy or isolationism. On the contrary, itseems to ground Ned in a way that the other, free-floating characters lack.Hartley’s worldview has always been an open-door one, allowing for differentphilosophies and trains of thought to run parallel to each other. At the same time that Ned turns old enough to leave hisgiven home, his mother Fay (Parker Posey) is being moved to a new prison. Hegoes to visit her first, before moving on to find his father (Thomas Jay Ryan),with the expressed purpose of killing him for what he did to his mother (his God is apparently a vengeful one). Tofind Henry, Ned first has to track down Simon (James Urbaniak), the poet madefamous despite his general allergy to public attention. Simon is holed up in ahotel, trying to figure out his next public move while taking comedy lessonsand trying to do stand-up routines online via webcam. The image of a formerly vital artisttrying to figure out what’s next can quite obviously be read as a bit of self-examinationby Hartley, who could be perceived as having lost some of his resonance in theworld of independent cinema. When an admirer named Susan (Aubrey Plaza, who hasthe perfect rhythm for Hartley’s dialogue) generally stalks her way into Simon’sworld, she reveals that she has done little more than write about him for years, evenlosing her job as a film critic because every review came back to the poetry ofSimon Grim. It turns out that Susan also has a deep connection to Henry’s past,and she hooks up with Ned to track him down. With a simple framing style, light score and remarkablyshort running time, “Ned Rifle” zips along from beginning to end, which mayleave some fans of “meatier” films like “Henry Fool” disappointed, but there’san infectious energy that makes this one of Hartley’s most likable works. It’salso just damn funny and smart. Lines like “Thegood of free will must entail real choices for sin” and “You’d think a religion would help teachpeople how the ungodly operate” zip by in the clever, dialogue-heavy scriptat such a fast pace that it almost demands a rewatch to catch all of them.There are little beats (like when Fay asks Ned to call her at prison and adds “I’m always here”) that made me smilethroughout, clearly sensing that Hartley himself was enjoying working in thisworld one last time. And the final scenes, while a bit rushed narratively, havea surprising emotional resonance. It gives one hope that closing the door onthese characters will invigorate Hartley to consistently make great filmsagain. “Ned Rifle” reminds me how much I missed him. Advertisement