“Tonstant Weader fwowed up.” Dorothy Parker originated thatimmortal line, in 1928, expressing, under her “The New Yorker” pen name“Constant Reader,” what would turn out to be very much a minority opinion onA.A. Milne’s “The House At Pooh Corner.” It occurred to this reviewer as heattempted to grapple with the oppressive, bloodless, winsome gentility of “5 To7,” a romantic comedy written and directed byVictor Levinand set in a New YorkCity where its protagonist/narrator tells you in the first five minutes or so,“you’re never more than twenty feet away from someone you know, or someoneyou’re meant to know.” Advertisement Said protagonist/narrator is a fellow in his 20s named Brianand, as you may have guessed, this motion picture does not depict him takingthe subway a whole hell of a lot. Brian, played byAnton Yelchin, is a youngwannabe writer whose study wall is festooned with rejection letters—on paper,even—from august publications, but the steady stream of do-not-wants does notstop him from continuing to ply his whatever it is; the fiction editor of “TheAtlantic,” Brian tells his mom, said “sorry” in the latest rejection, which tohim is a sign of progress. One afternoon while out maybe trying to acquire LifeExperience to feed his fiction, Brian meets a most enchanting French woman,Arielle (Bérénice Marlohe), and after getting off to a poorish start with a“Little Mermaid” reference, recovers with some wry in-French banter about how tobe a smoker in New York these days is to be a kind of exile, and shemysteriously offers to meet him again between the hours of the film’s title. Asit happens, Arielle is married, not unhappily, but it’s just that she’s soFrench she can take a lover, as her husband has, and while this propositiontemporarily affronts Brian’s sense of ethics, he soon gives himself over to anew kind of amour, and why not. So far, so tolerable, and when Brian and Arielle share achampagne toast in a long, unbroken take in her gorgeous apartment and Arielleresponds to one of Brian’s bromides with “Maybe you should write fortunecookies,” so moderately sharp. But somewhere before the halfway point the moviecrosses a line, and its fantasy version of New York, not to mention of Frenchwomen, gets to looking kind of hoary and inadvertently adolescent. Eventually,the fact that the characters are all aware of the multiple clichés they’reuttering—an exchange between Brian and a young editor (Olivia Thirlby) isparticularly excruciating in this respect—doesn’t redeem or excuse the clichés. Writer/director Levin, an old television hand, is clearlylooking to make his own “Stolen Kisses”—his Truffaut fandom extends to strategicallyplacing a “Jules And Jim” clip in the movie—but the stupefying level of wishfulfillment here makes the film play, oddly, like a much more refined “KillingZoe.” Yes, the 1993 movie in which a callow bro played byEric Stoltzmakes agorgeous French call girl fall madly in love with him in the first ten minutes.Speaking of Stoltz, he appears here, playing an editor named Jonathan Galassi,which is also the name of a very real New York-based book person, and it’s oddthat an actor should be playing the role since Levin, who must be verywell-connected, persuaded luminaries such asJulian Bondand Daniel Boulud toappear in cameos as themselves. Advertisement The oddest cameo is by David Remnick, thereal-life editor of the real-life “New Yorker,” appearing as himself andproclaiming Brian’s fiction-writing talents (in case you weren’t able to guessthis, his affair with Arielle really agitates his muse, and stuff) to Brian andBrian’s parents (played byGlenn CloseandFrank Langella) in a very confusingscene. I wondered whether Remnick had lost a bet at first. I then reflectedthat in the weirdly rarified world this movie wants to depict, a “New Yorker”editor would not be caught inanimate doing a cameo in any film, let alone oneas mediocre as this one, and this paradox set my head a-spin a little bit. Butby the time the picture wound down to its finale, with the narration spouting abunch of unearned platitudes about “perfect love” (as Truffaut knew, andcommunicated in “Stolen Kisses” and elsewhere, there’s no such thing, andimperfect love is something to be unequivocally treasured) and one of itscharacters sporting tortoise-shell-rimmed glasses to connote the Passage OfTime, the only thing in my mind was that Dorothy Parker phrase.