Look at that cast. How could that possibly go wrong? JohnMalkovich,Billy Bob Thornton,Michael Stuhlbarg,Bruce DernandOliver Plattare starring in a Coen-esque thriller about murder in a small town? Where do Iget in line to buy a ticket? Sadly, “Cut Bank” is another piece of evidencethat proves the case that filmmaking is not the sum of its parts. And whilethere’s some undeniably inherent joy in just seeing some of these great actorsplay off each other, the sum here is a shockingly dull affair, almost made moredisappointing by the talent it wastes. It is also evidence in another filmcriticism case—the one that proves that the balance of crime and comedy that theCoens defined for so many copycats in films like “Fargo” and “No Country ForOld Men” is significantly harder to pull off than some people think it looks. Advertisement Not a lot happens in Cut Bank, Montana, a small town withthe claim to fame of being the coldest in the United States. In fact,experienced Sheriff Vogel (Malkovich) has never seen a murder. Of course, that’sabout to change. Town hunk Dwayne McLaren (Liam Hemsworth) is filming hisgirlfriend Cassandra (Teresa Palmer) in their favorite spot in town when a carpulls up in the background and he captures a murder on tape. Town mailmanGeorgie Wits (Dern) has been killed. Or has he? And nothing matters more totown recluse Derby Milton (Stuhlbarg) other than the fact that a parcel he hasbeen waiting on has gone missing with the mailman’s murder. He’ll do anything toget it back. From the beginning, “Cut Bank” isn’t just tonallyinconsistent, it doesn’t really have one. It’s flat. There’s no sense ofrhythm, tension, or atmosphere. Thornton, in particular, sounds like he’sreciting lines he just learned, and Hemsworth is as flat as they come as the protagonist.He doesn’t respond to acts of violence like a normal human being would. There’snothing organic here. And that makes for a giant vacuum in the middle of thepiece since, technically, Dwayne is supposed to be the leading man, although it’scrystal clear that even directorMatt Shakmanand writerRoberto Patinoaremore interested in the rest of the colorful characters than dull Dwayne. To thatend, there are scenes that work, such as Malkovich and Platt at the “beststeakhouse in town” and an encounter between Stuhlbarg and an imposingNative-American that he thinks has his p-p-p-parcel. What keeps sinking “Cut Bank” is that these moments ofpersonality stand out against a field of gray. This film is lifeless, as ifShakman and Patino are going for deadpan comedy and only getting the dead partof it. Malkovich escapes the best, finding a bit of truth in the Tommy LeeJones from “No Country” part as a small-town lawman depressed by the fact thathe couldn’t keep violence from his life until its natural end. There’s anhonest sadness in Malkovich’s performance that one doesn’t often see inthrillers, and it’s a moving, relatable human emotion on which to hold whilewatching “Cut Bank”. The problem is that it’s the only one. Advertisement