Lastyear inMike Leigh’s rather difficult biopic “Mr. Turner,” the nineteenthcentury art critic John Ruskin was portrayed byJoshua McGuireas an inanelittle ninny of a man, a self-satisfied bird pecking away atTimothy Spall’s gruntingpainter J.M.W. Turner. And now Ruskin is being raked over the coals again in avery different and far more elaborate way in “Effie Gray,” a handsomelydesigned period film with a screenplay byEmma Thompsonthat seeks to dramatizeRuskin’s unhappy marriage to a younger woman as a kind of feminist fairy tale. Advertisement AsRuskin, Thompson’s real-life husband Greg Wise looks exactly like survivingphotographs of the man he is playing: handsome, gloomy, lofty, and a littleblank and bland. His handsome blandness is a trap with which he captures theinnocent Effie (Dakota Fanning), whisking her away from her parents in Scotlandand depositing her into his family home in London, where he is controlled byhis tyrannical father (David Suchet) and mother (Julie Walters), who insists ongiving her grown son a bath after his long voyage. This movie is too tastefulto actually show you Mrs. Ruskin bathing her adult son and what that might lookand feel like, and so we are left wondering, with Effie, just what is wrong withher marriage from the start. Ontheir first night together in the house, Effie comes into their bedroom andexpectantly takes off her nightgown. Wise makes it clear that Ruskin has neverseen a nude female body before in the flesh, and he also makes it clear thatRuskin is repelled by what he sees, and also fearful. After that keydisconnection, “Effie Gray” shows us scene after scene of Ruskin coldlyrejecting his wife in every way possible until she grows ill with neglect,losing her hair and retreating into closed-off misery. Fanning plays the partof Effie on a single stunned note of frozen longing, and this is not enough tosustain all of these repetitive rejection scenes. The wise and sympathetic LadyEastlake (Emma Thompson) notices Effie’s plight, as does the ambitious youngpainter Everett Millais (Tom Sturridge), who owes his success to Ruskin’schampioning of his paintings, but there is little they can do about it atfirst. Thisshould be a dramatic situation, like a variation on Hitchcock’s “Rebecca”(1940). The unconsummated marriage between Ruskin and Gray has served asmaterial for many prior books and plays, but the material here never coheresbecause Thompson is so intent on making Effie a sympathetic heroine that shemakes Ruskin into such a villain that he might as well be twirling his mustachetoward the end. Why did Ruskin reject his wife and refuse to sleep with her?Was he too much of a puritan for intercourse? Had his parents stifled him tothe point of total sexual repression? Was he gay? Or was he a never-activepedophile who could not be attracted to a mature female? This last option lookslike it is the most likely, from a modern perspective. Advertisement Grayherself wrote,“He alleged various reasons, hatredof children, religious motives, a desire to preserve my beauty, and finallythis last year he told me his true reason…that he had imagined women were quitedifferent to what he saw I was, and that the reason he did not make me his Wifewas because he was disgusted with my person the first evening 10th April[1848].” Ruskin later wrote, “It may be thought strange that I could abstainfrom a woman who to most people was so attractive. But though her face wasbeautiful, her person was not formed to excite passion. On the contrary, there werecertain circumstances in her person which completely checked it.”Instead of exploring this as openly as possible and taking somechances, Thompson and directorRichard Laxtononly hint at what’s wrong betweenthem, and so Wise is forced to be ever more opaque while Fanning is presentedas a Sleeping Beauty only. There are colorful detours here, like a trip toVenice that is presided over by the always-welcomeClaudia Cardinale, but such excursionsonly serve to blur an already blurry situation. To put it in crude terms,“Effie Gray” is a film about a young woman who very righteously wants to getlaid who finds that her only out after a long ordeal is the fact that her husbandhas not taken her virginity, and there is definitely an irony in that. If Ruskinhad tried a bit sexually with her and failed, she might have been stuck withhim for life. It was only the fact that he was such a screwed-up prude thatfinally offered her a possible escape hatch. This might qualify as a spoiler if you aren’t familiar with thecase, so tread softly here. “Effie Gray” runs 108 minutes, yet it feels like itends right before the real drama is about to begin. Why on earth have Thompsonand Laxton chosen to show us the very long and drawn-out unhappiness of theRuskin-Gray marriage and his un-giving cruelty toward her if we don’t get tosee his comeuppance and public humiliation after she charges him with impotenceto win her divorce? Surely we have earned a few scenes of his reaction to thisscandal in social situations, and surely it would be good to know just whathappens to Effie (she married Millais and bore him eight children). Whateverhis personal drawbacks, and they seem to have been very extensive, Ruskin wasan incisive art critic and he is still very much worth reading. If thelambasting he gets in “Mr. Turner” and in “Effie Gray” leads a few people toread his work then that might be the keenest irony of all in this odd openseason of Ruskin-bashing. Advertisement