Imagine wandering into a cozy London pub one quiet afternoonand finding yourself quaffing pints alongside a ferociously charming, craggilyhandsome older gent, a survivor of the Swinging ‘60s who regales you with atorrent of tales about that storied era and his own place near the center ofits rock ’n roll and arts scene. It’s a fascinating aural journey, at leastuntil the raconteur’s garrulousness means that he rambles on a bit too longand, in so doing, comes to seem less illuminating than self-involved. Advertisement That’s something like the experience of watching James D.Cooper’s “Lambert & Stamp,” a sharply crafted, highly entertaining portraitof two young Londoners who made their names and fortunes by managing afledgling band called the High Numbers, who becameThe Who. Not only aninvolving account of that group’s rise from obscurity to superstardom, the filmis also an exceptionally vivid and evocative depiction of the cultural flux ofthe late ‘60s and early ‘70s. That it ends up seeming longer than it need be,and somewhat muddled in its last half hour, are significant flaws but will beforgiven by viewers drawn to the film’s colorful subject matter and centralcharacters. The era was one of illustrious talent managers, and if KitLambert and Chris Stamp never achieved the celebrity of The Beatles’ BrianEpstein or the Stones’ Andrew Loog Oldham, that certainly was not due to anylack of personal charisma on their part, though it might be said that theircharisma was more collective than individual. The odd couple of British rockmanagers, they were a delightfully unlikely duo, Lambert a gay, upper-classOxford-educated intellectual, Stamp a brawling East Ender whose chiseled looksmirrored those of his movie star brother, Terence. The two were drawn togetherby a mutual love of cinema, especially the French New Wave. Since making one’sown movies then was not as easy as it is now, they decided they would slip intofilm by the back door, as it were, by finding a great band to manage and makinga movie about them. The second half of that plan never came to pass, but thefirst half did, in spectacular fashion. Drawn into a “grotty” nightclub by aline of Mod motor-scooters outside, the band-hunters came upon of roomful ofpimply teens mesmerized by the aggressive noise created by Peter Townshend,Roger Daltrey, John Entwistle andKeith Moon. On his first encounter with thewould-be managers, Townshend recalls, it was, for him, love at first sight. ButLambert and Stamp’s friends didn’t feel the same: the musicians, they said,were simply too ugly to be pop stars. Advertisement One benefit of its protagonists’ cinematic aspirations isthat there’s great b&w 16mm footage of the band and its fans at this earlystage, even before they became The Who. Lambert and Stamp themselves are alsowell documented. There are also copious stills of them hanging out with thelikes of Jimi Hendrix, as well as enough footage of them together that you geta real sense of the emotional bond between the two dapper scene-makers. Anadded plus are interviews in which Lambert expounds on British youth culture influent French and German for foreign TV interviewers. While the film doesn’t delve into the specifics of howLambert and Stamp shaped the band’s creative profile – nor, rather curiously,is much said about the particular challenges faced by second-wave BritishInvasion bands – there’s no doubt that the two were concerned with lots morethan the business end of things. Lambert, whose father was a noted symphonyconductor, had Townshend move into his and Stamp’s flat in posh Belgravia(where, hilariously, they were able to live more cheaply since the localmerchants were used to extending long lines of credit to aristos) andintroduced him to classical music and composers such as Purcell. Townsendallows that this education and other mentoring activities by Lambert had acrucial impact on his songwriting. The film’s lengthiest and most important interviews are withTownshend, Daltrey and the voluble Stamp (Lambert died in 1981), and all agreethat, though The Who were international hit-makers by the late ‘60s, it wasn’tuntil the release of “Tommy” in 1969 that the band felt firmly established bothcreatively and commercially. Townshend recalls thinking of Daltrey as an actorwho blossomed as a singer/frontman once the rock opera gave him his greatestrole. There are glimpses of topnotch Who performances in thisaccount, but only glimpses. Fans who want more tunefulness should look toconcert films or other docs. Though it shows us plenty of the band’sdestruction of their instruments (a gimmick that became a trademark), “Lambert& Stamp” is one of those films that lets talking heads and their words takeprecedence over music, which will be frustrating for some viewers. Advertisement After “Tommy,” the four musicians and their two managerswere all rich (The Who eventually bought Shepperton Film Studios), and acertain amount of dissolution set in. Stamp saw his dream of directing a movieof “Tommy” pass toKen Russell. Lambert bought a palazzo in Venice and becameaddicted to heroin. Moon died in 1978, Entwistle in 2002. While chronicles like this one almost invariably are moreengaging in showing the rise to fame rather than the decline from it, “Lambertand Stamp” is over-long at 117 minutes and begins to feel meandering andsomewhat clotted in its last quarter. The post-“Tommy” unraveling may have beenmurky in reality, but the telling here makes it more so. One glaring omissionconcerns the death of Lambert: We’re not told when, where or how it happened,or how it affected the band or Stamp. That’s unfortunate both in itself and inhow it tends to tilt the film to Stamp, who, while very personable, ends upseeming a bit self-serving due to the screen time and narrative dominance thatCooper allows him.