FilmmakerJulius Onahis a Nigerian-American who has livedin the Philippines, Nigeria, the United Kingdom, and now calls New York Cityhis home. To say he has a unique socio-cultural perspective to offer the noirgenre would be a massive understatement. However, the fact that he injects hisremarkably promising debut “The Girl is in Trouble” with an undercurrent ofcommentary about class and race isn’t the only thing that makes it promising.It’s tightly directed and well-performed, particularly byColumbus Shortand acareer-redefining turn fromWilmer Valderrama. If anything—and trust me when Itell you this is the opposite of most independently produced noirs from debutdirectors—there’s an overabundance of ideas in “The Girl is in Trouble,”sometimes to a distracting degree. And Onah doesn’t quite stick the landingnarratively, although he has such filmmaking energy that his work here meritscomparison to that of the film’s executive producer,Spike Lee. Advertisement The most similar film in Lee’s filmography to this would be “InsideMan,” a highly underrated, brilliant piece of work in which Lee injected socialcommentary into what could have been merely another cookie-cutter thriller.Similarly, “The Girl is in Trouble” looks like just another Wrong Guy, WrongGirl piece on first glance, but there’s much more beneath the surface. It’s noaccident that the four central characters on which this thriller spins are fromfour vastly different backgrounds. There’s August (Short), a Nigerian-Americanstruggling bartender/DJ, who gets what he thinks is just another booty callfrom a gorgeous Swede he met at a club named Signe (Alicja Bachleda). It’s nospoiler to say that Signe is the title character, as earlier that night shehappened to be in a closet filming a murder on her cell phone, and she’slooking for a place to hide. August wakes up from his night with Signe to find her goingthrough his wallet. He responds understandably, grabbing her phone to call thepolice, and, of course, stumbles upon the smartphone version of a snuff film.The victim is a low-level dealer named Jesus (Kareem Savinon) and the murdereris the son of a powerful financial figure in New York named Nicholas (JesseSpencer). Or is he? What exactly happened that night? And can August figure itout before either Nicholas or Jesus’ crazy brother Angel (Wilmer Valderrama)finds them? The characters in “The Girl is in Trouble” may come fromdistinctly different backgrounds but Onah unites them in a vision of peopletrying to grab their part of the American dream, and he does so through thelens of noir. Onah never allows the social commentary to overtake the tensionof the narrative, but he also never forgets about it. It’s a script that takesdiversions for history lessons about immigration, asides about Nicholas nottipping his black server, who happened to be August. A memory of August beingarrested three years ago for punching a yuppie who flicked a cigarette at him.The fact that he’s too broke to see a doctor. It’s a film about people not justlooking for money, but a place in this world, and Onah is careful to mark whatthey have in common as much as how they’re different (it’s no coincidence thatmusic plays a major part in the lives of August, Signe, and Nicholas). Advertisement One can feel Lee’s touch at different times throughout “TheGirl is in Trouble” as Onah even cribs the trademark dolly shot in which hisprotagonists look like they’re floating—and he does so effectively given thethemes of people detached, looking for solid ground. Onah also deserves creditfor really paying off the big moment—the flashback to the night of the murder.It’s perfectly blocked, timed, and edited to produce maximum tension. We seemto rush too quickly from that memory to the credits, but that’s a minorcomplaint. Cast is uniformly strong here, especially Short, who makes alikable leading man, and a surprisingly malevolent turn from Valderrama, anactor not really known for playing villains. He’s believably menacing to thepoint that you forget that this is casting against type after only a coupleminutes. And he smartly imbues Angel with a sense of sadness at what he feelshe has to do to avenge his brother. Like so many of these people, thepredicaments of their life—whether it’s Signe’s drama, Nicholas’ BernieMadoff-esque criminal father, or August’s job troubles—are not ones they havechosen. Although the end of “The Girl is in Trouble” spins even that on itshead, arguing that responsibility and owning your life is the key to happiness.You don’t really find a place in this world, no matter where you come from,until you choose to take it.