At the end of act one inAsghar Farhadi’s gripping “AboutElly,” the title character disappears. Elly (Taraneh Alidousti), a young schoolteacher, has gone on a weekend vacation with a group of thirtysomethingprofessional couples from Tehran. She’s supposed to be looking after threelittle kids who’re playing on a beach, and suddenly she’s not there. That thisvanishing sets up a mystery that propels the rest of the film has led tounderstandable critical comparisons to Antonioni’s “L’Avventura.” Advertisement Yet the scene that immediately follows our last glimpse ofElly reminded me of quite a different movie: Spielberg’s “Jaws.” Most of thevacationing adults are playing volleyball behind the villa where they’restaying when two of the aforementioned kids appear from the beach and startscreaming about the third. It takes the grownups several beats to catch on, butwhen they do, they rush around the house, realize that the third kid, a littleboy, is nowhere to be seen, and frantically begin plunging into the CaspianSea’s crashing waves. I won’t reveal how the scene ends, just that I can’t helpbut think Spielberg would admire Farhadi’s electrifying direction of it. As theIranian men dash into the ocean, and their alarmed wives emerge from the house,everything is in motion: the characters, the water, the camera. We seem to belooking in every direction at once, desperately: up and down the beach, backtoward the villa, even under the sea as it pounds forward violently. Farhadi’sorchestration of all these elements is complex and viscerally kinetic; fewviewers will experience it without holding their breath at some point. So what do we make of an Iranian film whose conceptualparameters are broad enough to span “L’Avventura” and “Jaws”? Perhaps we shouldbegin by venturing that Asghar Farhadi is a new and conspicuously audaciouskind of Iranian auteur. When Iranian directors such asAbbas KiarostamiandMohsen Makhmalbafbegan catching the world’s eye in the late ‘80s and early‘90s, it was for films that had obvious parallels to Euro-style cinematicmodernism. Even when newer directors includingJafar PanahiandMajid Majidigave a more commercial spin to this basic model from the late 90s onward, theirwork still spoke the language of the international art film. Advertisement Farhadi’s “A Separation” (2011) took a different tack,becoming the most successful Iranian film in history, as well as the first towin the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, thanks in part to innovations ontwo fronts. First, Farhadi’s Iranian cinematic models were not any of theaforementioned filmmakers but two cinematic masters who are less well knownoutside Iran: Dariush Mehrjiu (“Leila”), whose films often deal with Iran’smiddle and upper classes; and Bahram Beyzaie (“The Travelers”), whose creativeroots are in theater (as are Farhadi’s). Second, Farhadi admitted Americaninfluences including the likes ofElia Kazanand films such as “A StreetcarNamed Desire.” “About Elly” represents all the tendencies of Farhadi’smature style as brilliantly as “A Separation,” yet it is not a successor to thelatter film. It was made just before it and won the Silver Bear at the BerlinFilm Festival in 2009, but, due to complicated rights issues, was not releasedin the U.S. until now. Its belated appearance should be welcomed by cinephiles,as it offers solid proof of this writer-director’s distinctive gifts. One of those is a way of dramatic structuring that’s likepeeling an onion: the first layers we see seem familiar and self-evident, butthe more layers we reach, the more complex the whole becomes. Here, thestarting point is what seems like an entirely happy and carefree outing wherethree couples – many of whom have been friends since law school – motor out tothe Caspian Sea for a holiday weekend. One wife has invited along pretty Elly,her daughter’s elementary school teacher, in obvious hopes of matching her withthe excursion’s other singleton: Ahmad, a handsome friend who’s just returnedfrom Germany after getting divorced. For Americans who’ve seen few Iranian films, or only onescentered on the poor or dispossessed, the characters here will be striking.With their BMWs, faded t-shirts and constant joking around, they’re likecosmopolitan urbanites anywhere. Sure, we’re reminded of their Iranian-ness intheir particular styles of music and dance and in the fact that the women allwear head-scarves throughout (something required by law of Iranian films) buteven they are casual and stylish. As in “A Separation,” there’s evidence of tension betweenthis class of privileged professionals and the strata of poorer, more piousIranians beneath them, but this is more peripheral than in the later film:e.g., the Tehranis pretend Elly and Ahmad are newlyweds in order not to offendthe religious sensibilities of the rural folks who rent them the villa. Advertisement From that little white lie to other similar ones and theuncovering of various personal agendas: the peeling away of the onion skinsreveals a continuing succession of hidden realities, and the ones that comeafter Elly’s disappearance are darker and cut deeper than those early on. Butwhen I read that a writer in Sight & Sound has said all this constitutes “acritique of the lies and evasions that permeate Iranian society,” I canpractically hear the groans coming from Farhadi, who has said in interviewsthat he doesn’t want to be one of those filmmakers who is expected “to explainIran to the West.” Thefilmmaker has, instead, clearly indicated that his goals in “About Elly” arefar less sociopolitical than cinematic, stating that, “[D]irectors can nolonger be content with force-feeding [audiences] a set of preconceived ideas.Rather than asserting a world vision, a film must open a space in which thepublic can involve themselves in a personal reflection, and evolve fromconsumers to independent thinkers.” “Openingspaces” is precisely what Farhadi’s films do, both literally and figuratively.Indeed, the various ways great Iranian directors articulate visual spacecomprise one of the most fascinating and significant dimensions of Iraniancinema, from the contemplative and symbolic uses in some films to the poeticand documentary-like in others. Farhadi’sway with space is more dynamic and consciously multi-layered, as well astechnically virtuosic, enough so to recall “Jaws” or indeed “A Streetcar NamedDesire.” To anyone going to see “About Elly,” I would say this: Notice theearly scene where the four couples and three kids arrive at the villa with theboy whose family is renting it to them. See the way ace cinematographer HosseinJafarian’s gliding hand-held camera takes in the disheveled rooms, glimpses theseascape through the windows and doors, and sets up an enormously complex andinvolving set of relationships between the characters by continually reframingthem. Advertisement Thereare some great little moments here. Two quick shots of the host boy, forinstance: in one, he glances out the front door at two kids on the beach,prefiguring the lost-child scene described above; in another, he gives a briefcaustic look in reaction to one Tehran man’s silly dance – a statement of classdifferences as eloquent as any dissertation. Farhadiis a masterful director of actors, and here he gets a range of precise, vividperformances from a cast that also includesGolshifteh Farahani,Peyman Moadi(“A Seperation”), Mani Haghighi andShahab Hosseini. It might be argued thatFarhadi doesn’t have any grand message, or “world vision” as he puts it. But tome, his way of revivifying cinema, and connecting its spaces to those of humanhearts and minds, is vision aplenty.