When the studio that gave the world “Paul Blart: Mall Cop”opts to back a torn-from-the-international-headlines socially-consciousbased-on-true-events movie, common sense may tell you to head for the hills. SoI’m both surprised and somewhat gratified to be able to say that the Relativityproduction “Desert Dancer,” based on the true life story of a dance performer andunderground impresario going up against the repressive Iranian regime and itsmore thuggish supporters is, while hardly perfect, a movie that frequentlydisplays surprising sensitivity and sensibility. Advertisement The first feature from directorRichard Raymond, from ascript byJon Croker, “Desert Dancer” gets off on its particular foot bymorphing Farsi characters into English ones, and enacting its Iran-based dramawith a largely English-born cast, speaking in English. Okay, then;international-headline socially-conscious movies tend to do better business inEnglish-speaking countries if they’re in English. Good thing Iran is such acosmopolitan country, as it makes the language seem less forced. I’m making ajoke, but not entirely—Iran IS a cosmopolitan country even in its currentoppressed form. “The home to great poetry,” an opening-text title says (shadesof the pre-action apologia for “Argo”). There are ever different currentsflowing in its culture, and the movie shows young, dance-crazy AfshinGhaffarian taken up by one of those currents.Punished at his official schoolfor dancing in front of classmates—dancing, while not officially “illegal” inthe country, is highly frowned upon by the “morality police” of particularadministrations—Afshin is then invited to attend an underground arts school,where he sees on film for the first time     Rudolf Nureyev    . He’s then hooked, andwhen he gets to the University of Tehran about a decade later, he’s ready tohook up with a new group of friends who introduce him to secret dance clubs.It’s more than just leisure for these young people; the kids are also prominentin the country’s “green movement,” hoping to displace the doctrinaireAhmadinejad regime with the more liberal Mir Hossein Mousavi. In the midst ofall this foment, Afshin dares his new pals to join him in forming a dancetroupe. A nifty idea, except none of Afshin’s friends are real dancers. They’replenty game, though, and they find a practice space in a relative’s abandonedprinting plant. And there they are joined, unexpectedly, by another student,the beguilingly beautiful Elehah (     Freida Pinto    ), whose mother was a star in abefore-the-revolution Tehran ballet company. The haunted Elehah has massivechops, steely determination, and a lot of baggage, including a proclivity forsmoking heroin.These and other obstacles force Afshin, who’s initially areal wide-eyed “Gotta Dance!” type, to grow up pretty quick. Things get morecritical after the 2009 elections, which Mousavi loses, and which triggers abacklash against green movement supporters by paramilitary “basiji,” one ofwhom, in this story, is the older brother of one of Afshin’s college friends.As the makeshift troupe arranges to stage a performance in the one environmentin which there is “no regime”—that is, a desert region almost 100 kilometersoutside of Tehran, one of their number is under enormous pressure to betraythem. Advertisement The movie can get almost as melodramatic as that plotdescription sounds, but it is also dotted with refreshing moments. Its depictionof the internal tensions in Iranian politics and culture is not what you’d callsuper-nuanced, but it is sympathetic to Iran as an entity. The performers areall first rate, and Reece Richie is especially good in the physically demandingrole of Afshin. Pinto is equally excellent, and her heart-stopping beauty hasnever been used quite so effectively in a film before, which is sayingsomething. The cinematography is beautiful, and for every two scenes that areobvious on-the-nose thumps, there’s one that is more subtle and affecting;particularly noteworthy is the desert dance that gives the movie itstitle.