With hisfirst directorial effort, the gruesomely effective 1986 cult favorite"Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer," filmmakerJohn McNaughtonearned an instant place in the Horror Hall of Fame. Since then, however, hiscareer, with the exception of the cheerfully lurid sexploitation epic"Wild Things," has consisted almost entirely of interesting moviesthat never managed to find an audience (the grisly sci-fi thriller "TheBorrower," the oddball comedy-drama "Mad Dog and Glory" and"A Normal Life," a searing docu-drama in whichAshley Juddgives oneof the best performances that you will ever see) and nothing but televisionsince 2001's "Speaking of Sex." Now, after more than a dozen years,McNaughton returns to both the big screen and the genre where he first made hisbones with "The Harvest," a smart and strong genre work that makes upfor a relative lack of gore and viscera with plenty of tension and suspense anda number of impressive performances. Advertisement Theopening scenes put one in mind of one of Steven Spielberg's Amblin productionsof the 1980s orStephen King. In them, Maryann (Natasha Calis), a young tomboystill reeling from the recent death of her father, has been uprooted to upstateNew York to live with her well-meaning grandparents (Peter Fondaand LeslieLyles). While roaming the neighborhood one day, she comes across a house with asmall corn patch growing outside of a window and decides to investigate. Behindthat window is Andy (Charlie Tahan), a bedridden boy about her age, and shedecides to take matters into hand by literally climbing through the window andintroducing herself. Sickly and home-schooled, Andy is thrilled to have someonehis age to spend time with and the only hiccup comes when his mom, Katherine(Samantha Morton) arrives to discover this new and unexpected interloper—sheis pleasant enough to Maryann in theory but it is clearly obvious that the girlis not exactly welcome. Not thatthis stops Maryann from coming over to see Andy and even his father, Richard(Michael Shannon)—who quit his job as a nurse to look after his son while hiswife continued to work as a pediatric surgeon—seems happy that his son hasmade a friend, but Katherine's reaction to the girl grows frostier and frostieruntil she flat-out tells her not to come back. When that doesn't stop Maryann,Katherine turns on Andy in cruel ways that go beyond mere overprotectivenessinto insanely unreasonable. Clearly there is more going on than meets the eyeand when Maryann finally gets a glimpse of what is really happening but cannot convinceanyone of her suspicions, she takes it upon herself to attempt a rescue of Andyfrom Katherine's clutches, without realizing until it is too late the lengthsthat she is willing to go through in order to do what she feels is best for herson. The lastfew months have seen the beginnings of a long-overdue renaissance in low-keyhorror filmmaking with the releases of such winners as "TheBabadook," "A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night" and the currenthit "It Follows" and even though "The Harvest" was madeback in 2013 and is only now getting released, it fits in nicely with thoseachievements. First-time screenwriterStephen Lancellottihas done a nice jobof crafting a story that relies more on slow-burn tension than dumb shockmoments and includes a few nifty bits of misdirection that will even catch somelongtime fans of the genre off-guard. More importantly, his screenplay alsogives a welcome sense of complexity to its characters as well—even at herworst moments, for example, Katherine has been written in a way that allows usto understand and empathize with her to a certain degree. Likewise, McNaughton does an excellent job of keeping the tensionmounting throughout—even a simple game of catch turns into a suspensefulsetpiece in his hands—without resorting to the kind of grotesque extremes thathe deployed so memorably in "Henry." Advertisement The filmalso benefits from some highly effective casting in the key roles. Young starsCalis and Tahan may not be especially familiar to most audiences (she was in"The Possession" and he was in "Blue Jasmine" and voicedthe lead role in "Frankenweenie") but what they lack in star power,they more than make up for with strong and sure performances as a couple ofordinary kids caught in the middle of a situation that they can barely begin tocomprehend except to know that it is wrong. And by casting Samantha Morton, whohas played a number of exceedingly sympathetic characters over the years, andMichael Shannon, whose filmography is filled with performances that might giveHenry the creeps, as he has, McNaughton finds another way of keeping viewersoff-balance while allowing two strong actors to dig into scenes moreemotionally complex that the kind usually found in most horror films of late. "TheHarvest" has a couple of flaws that keep it from being a truly top-notchgenre effort—the screenplay never quite manages to establish why no one believesMaryann when she tries to tell them what she has seen and I wish that the rolesof her grandparents had been fleshed out a little more, though hearing PeterFonda mutter "Far out!" is always a treat. It is also true that byemphasizing its horrific elements and McNaughton's reputation in selling thefilm, some gorehounds may walk away disappointed while allowing its moreseemingly natural target audience of thoughtful adolescents to slip awayentirely. That would be a shame because this is both an excellent film in itsown right and a welcome return to form for a filmmaker who may not have alwaysgotten the right breaks over the years but who clearly hasn't lost any of hisconsiderable talents during that time.