The reviews forRyan Gosling’s directorial debut in “LostRiver” (which he also wrote) out of Cannes last year were so vitriolic anddownright hateful that I expected some sort of narcissistic variation on “The Room”.The good news is that “Lost River” is far from horrible; there are too manyinteresting ideas and strong visual compositions to write it off completely,and it’s actually kind of bizarre that so many people did so on the Riviera.The bad news is that it still doesn’t quite work, largely because Gosling hasbitten off more than he can chew, assembling ideas and images without thedirectorial vision to connect them. His film was clearly influenced by NicolasWinding Refn,David LynchandTerrence Malick, and one gets the distinct impressionthat mimicking filmmakers with such confident visual sensibilities may not havebeen the best way for a rookie director to get his feet wet. The result is apiece with images that connect only superficially, never finding the thematicresonance of a Lynch or Malick vision. Gosling’s eye is too confident toignore, but one hopes he points it at a more-engaging product next time. Advertisement “Lost River” takes place in a totally desolate andnearly-destroyed Detroit, in which Billy (Christina Hendricks) and her sonBones (Iain De Caestecker) struggle to make ends meet. She’s three monthsbehind on the mortgage payments; he spends his days scrounging burned-outbuildings for copper. In the world of “Lost River”, there are predatorseverywhere for people already on the edge of society; people who exist to pullthem into the abyss. Billy’s comes in the form of the new employee she meets atthe bank named Dave (Ben Mendolsohn), who has a proposition for her to makemore money. Bones’ comes in the form of Bully (Matt Smith), a freakish villainwho drives around town with a megaphone warning those considering stealing hiscopper that they better “look at his muscles” first. Exhausting all of her options, Billy takes up Dave’s offerto work at an exclusive, hidden nightclub, at which female performers pretendto mutilate and disfigure themselves. Run by the charismatic Cat (Eva Mendes),every night’s show includes paying customers who just want to be washed in thefake blood of beautiful women. And, of course, there’s something even morenefarious, but more profitable, for Billy in the basement of this disturbingestablishment. Dave tells Billy that he goes town to town, setting up theseexhibitions of violence, even in poor areas, and makes a fortune. Thecommentary on mass-produced re-creations of horror is a bit underlined andhighlighted, but it leads to some striking imagery, including Hendrickscasually taking off her face. Meanwhile, Bones’ only friend Rat (Saoirse Ronan) tells himabout an underwater city, at the bottom of the reservoir. The story goes thatthe modern Atlantis was flooded, and the submerging of it led to a curse on thepeople above. Bones becomes convinced he needs to retrieve an item from thereto lift the curse and bring happiness to Billy and Rat. From early on, it’s clear that Gosling is not concerned withtraditional narrative, as much as he is fever dream filmmaking, enhanced by aRefn-esque techno score and imagery that conveys directorial intention morethan dialogue. After searching for copper, Bones sees a bicycle on fire rollby. It is an image that only exists in film but it makes clear thedangerous world that Gosling is trying to capture. In this environment, Bones’ little brother thinks there are monsters in his room. Gosling is visually conveying that there aremonsters everywhere, waiting to grab people who have run out of options. Advertisement The problems with Golsing's film exist in that tried-and-true line between beingmysterious & symbolic and just being self-indulgent. The best elements of “LostRiver” approach near fairy tale tones. There’s a spell that needs to be broken,a man who is missing part of his face, a grandmother who remains mute—these feellike beats from Grimm more than anything else. But Gosling doesn’t have a gripon them, and the film reverts back to Malick-esque scenes of lyricism and then intorelatively straightforward scenes of dialogue. In fact, those scenes, such asthe first between Hendricks and Mendelsohn, are the best in the film. Goslingdefinitely has a nice touch with actors, he just buries in them in so muchcluttered, cinematic noise that they get lost themselves. And he really muddlesthe ending, as we need more definition as to what is actually happening in afew key climactic moments if we’re expected to care, which I believe we are. I believe. It's hard to say what exactly Gosling wants us to take away from his debut. I am very curious to see what he does next, now that he's made an "everything and the kitchen sink" film of his most beloved influences. For now, “Lost River” is one of those weird films that I thinksome people will absolutely adore, grabbing on to its performances, imagery,and ideas, without really caring that they haven’t been stitched together in aninteresting enough way.