At first,Francesco Munzi’s “Black Souls” feels undercooked.Its familiar tale of a family torn apart by crime owes a great deal tonarratives we already know and its deliberate pace, with its rollingcountryside and strings-heavy score, feels too lethargic. And yet this is oneof those pieces that rewards viewers willing to invest in it as the deliberatepace pays off with lived-in characters and a surprisingly emotionalundercurrent of near-Greek tragedy. Even those shots of the countryside beginto feel colder and more inescapable as the score becomes more dissonant anddisruptive. “Black Souls” isn’t quite the great film the international cinemabuzz machine has touted it to be in some circles, but it is a very good one,the kind that ends with such gravity that you feel its weight for a whileafter. Advertisement “Black Souls” starts as a piece about generationaldifferences within a crime family. The idea that one generation of mobstersaren’t doing it “right” like the previous one is as old as the mob itself. Hell,even Tony Soprano had to deal with Jackie Jr.’s nonsense. There are two crimesearly, one by an older generation for sustenance/need, as they steal animals tocook, and one by a younger generation that is pure vengeful vandalism. It’sclearly symbolic of a generational rift that can only lead to tragedy, but the firstact of “Black Souls” barely registers as a mob movie. Its purpose can be hardto discern for the first hour as there are more meetings, family discussions,and scenes of cooking than scenes of violence. What Munzi’s approach allows foris characters that feel lived-in and genuine, he allows them to groundthemselves before unleashing a narrative upon them. “Black Souls” is about three brothers in Calabria, inSouthern Italy. Based on a true story, it details the divergent lives of Luigi(Marco Leonardi), Rocco (Peppino Mazzotta) and Luciano Cabrone (FabrizioFerracane). Luigi and Rocco are involved in the family business ofdrug-trafficking on a very high scale, but Luciano has remained in themountains of Calabria, content with a life of herding goats and finding simplehappiness. His son Leo (Giuseppe Fumo) has no respect for dad’s domesticity,naturally drawn to the flash and sizzle of his uncles. When he goes to visitLuigi and Rocco, he is drawn further into the criminal underworld, against hisfather’s wishes. Can the eldest brother of criminal power figures really stayout of their world altogether? Especially when his son seems inclined to followthe path that involves righteous vengeance instead of goat-herding? Performances here are uniformly strong, especially Leonardi,who captures the kind of charismatic uncle to whom any young man would bedrawn, and Ferracane, who carries the weight of the inevitable in his eyes. It’salmost as if Luciano knows tragedy is coming and that there is absolutelynothing he can do about it. They are merely animals being herded in onedirection with the illusion of choice as to where life leads them. Munzi’s film is a mob movie steeped in misery. It is oftenbarely lit, usually naturally, and it just feels so cold that one can nearlysee the breath of its characters. And yet there’s still deep emotion here. It’sjust smothered by the antiquated tragedy of mob life. Crime has impacted thesepeople so deeply that it has blackened their souls, even those who have reachedout to try to live a normal life. “Black Souls” moves along so deliberatelythat I wasn’t sure if it would end in images of isolation or violence. In thisdark world, the two are intertwined. Advertisement