In the bizarre, not to say entirely improbable, not to saypointlessly ridiculous, not to say—well, you get the idea, world of “Kill MeThree Times,” ostensibly ordinary people in Western Australia have perfectteeth and perfect hair and generally very fit to middlingly fit bodies. And allthese very well-maintained ordinary people seem to spend all their leisure time,of which there’s apparently quite a lot, attempting varieties of criminalactivity. Seems kind of counterproductive given the abundance of natural beautyin the location but what are you going to do? There’s a bar/hotel owner sittingon a pile of apparently ill-gotten cash, a milquetoast dentist with a gamblingproblem and his hotsy-totsy wife who’s got him embroiled in amurder-and-insurance fraud scheme, there’s a wayward wife looking to rip offher suddenly cash-rich husband and leave town with the hunky local automechanic with a quick temper, and there’s a crooked cop extorting money from abunch of the aforementioned. And then there’s the smart-ass know-it-allsurveillance-specialist-cum-hitman who speaks the first word of the movie,which is, in case you couldn’t guess, a four-letter one. Advertisement The story mechanics of “Kill Me Three Times,” and“mechanics” really is the right word, are revealed, as the title suggests, inthree discrete episodes, each one telling the same tale from a differentperspective and/or time frame. In the event this is starting to sound familiar,the film’s score, byJohnny Klimek, is pretty heavily reliant on surf guitar,or at least a simulation of surf guitar. So, yes, improbably enough in the yearof our Lord 2015, Australian filmmaking (once upon a time replete with originaland powerful voices, more’s the pity) is offering up a slab of gigglingysadistic sub-early-Tarantino hogwash. And populating it, dispiritingly enough,with relatively appealing acting talent:Simon Peggplays the hitman Wolfe,Alice Bragaa wayward wife; the rest of the cast is actually Australian, andincludesSullivan Stapletonof “Animal Kingdom,”Teresa Palmer, here continuinga run of lousy casting luck that also includes “I Am Number Four” and “WarmBodies,” and stalwartBryan Brown, relaxed and smirky in the small role of thecrooked cop. As it saunters to the not-inordinately tricksy steps laidout inJames McFarland’s screenplay,Kriv Stenders’ direction also luxuriatesin competent cinematic sheen: helicopter shots over pristine blue water,approaching a beautiful glass and sandstone beach house; perfectly rectangularneon-colored lens flares in night-at-the-bar scenes; nicely framedshiny-brick-lined corridors awash in deep blue light. There are also somesnazzy automobiles, including a mint condition fire-engine red VW bug. Because,you know, why not—they like their unusual cars in their contemporary neo-noirs,don’t they. The requisite spurting gunshot wounds to the neck are also here;what isn’t here is engaging dialogue (“Tourist?” the auto mechanic characterasks Wolfe; “ Sort of,” Wolfe replies…or something like “sort of,” to be honestit’s hard to recall, and I didn’t write it in my notes…) engaging characters,or any kind of convincing reason-for-being with respect to the wholeenterprise. One is apt to mourn the time wasted not just by the movie’s livingparticipants, but also by the VW bug. All participants could have gotten up tosomething far more enjoyable.