Depending on where you sit, this movie’s a draw for verydifferent reasons. From the mainstream perspective, two words:Kristen Stewart.The young actor, who catapulted to worldwide fame in the “Twilight” series,has, like her co-starRobert Pattinson, been using the clout that such stardombrings to effectively branch out as a performer. In the contemporary moviebusiness, the transaction works both ways: big young star stretches creativemuscles by signing on to challenging, filmmaker-driven projects; challenging,filmmaker-driven projects get their financing because a young star who wants tostretch his or her creative muscles has signed on to it. In cases like those ofPattinson’s and Stewart’s, the stakes, and the intrigue, get raised, becauseboth performers have wildly enthusiastic (not to say rabid) fan bases that seemwilling to follow their idols anywhere. Which is not to say that movies like“Maps To The Stars” (Pattinson working for the second time with maestro ofunsettling contentDavid Cronenberg) or this Stewart co-starrer are fated torack up “Twilight”-comparable numbers. But they will be seen by a segment ofthe mass audience that in most other circumstances isn’t interested in auteurs.The Stewart-intrigue factor is in itself a double-edged sword, because forevery 10,000 growing teens for whom Stewart can do no wrong, there’s one film critic,amateur or professional, who still is not sure if Stewart “can act.” (I am notone of these; I was impressed by her in “Panic Room,” “Undertow,” and “Into TheWild,” to name three of her pre-“Twilight” films.) They look to films such asthis one, and another recent Stewart indie, “Camp X-Ray,” to settle thequestion for them once and for all. Advertisement Then there are those for whom this movie’s a draw because ofits writer/director,Olivier Assayas, working here not just with Stewart butwith the great French actressJuliette Binoche, who was also in Assayas’terrific 2008 family drama “Summer Hours.” Assayas is one of world cinema’smost penetrating and unpredictable talents; for instance, the two films he madeprior to this one were “Something In The Air,” an affecting, autobiographicalcoming-of-age story of politics and cinema in the early ‘70s, and before that,the sweeping, bracing, not-at-all-sweet “Carlos,” a trenchant biopic of thetitular real-life terrorism perpetrator whose activities galvanized Europe fora period. “Clouds of Sils Maria” is entirely different in some ways from thosetwo films, but its invented worlds are very much in keeping with Assayas’concerns about how art and reality intertwine and feed off of each other. The setup for the picture seems to promise a story ofrivalry among artists: the movie begins on a train; world-renowned actressMaria (Binoche) is on her way to visit her artistic mentor Wilhelm Melchior,and deliver a speech at a ceremony honoring the reclusive theater master. Mariahas her efficient but frazzled and very hip young American assistant Val(Stewart) in tow; Val’s the one in charge of the schedules, the multiplesmartphones, and the texting, and it’s Val who first learns that Melchior, theman they’re on their way to see, has died. This loss changes the dynamic of the event. Maria has barelytime to register her loss than she’s regaled with Chanel in a theater corridor;whisked through a photo shoot; reintroduced to a former co-star she neverliked; and approached by a hot young theater director to appear in a revival ofthe Melchior play that made her famous. Playing, and this is no small thing,not the ingénue role that she is now to old for, but the role of an older, moreembittered character. Set to play the younger woman’s role is of course ayounger woman, a scandal-riddled star played byChloe Grace Moretzandinitially seen mainly via paparazzi videos Val finds for Maria on YouTube.After this flurry of activity Val and Maria repair to Melchior’s house in thetitle village. It’s not far from this place that a particular cloud formationcalled the Maloja Snake, which provides the Melchior play with its own title,occurs. Aside from feeding each other lines from Melchior’s play, and arguingabout life and art and career, Maria and Val aspire to go on a hike and witnessthe snake-like cloud formation as it appears. In the meanwhile, elsewhere inEurope, Jo-Ann (Moretz) and her latest male conquest, a boy toy with literarypedigree, hone in on, you might have guessed it, an opportunity to stretchcreative muscles and/or gain some form of artistic cred; for whatever reason,Jo-Ann is hungry for a form of respectability even if she can’t quite fathomwhat kind, not to even mention why. Advertisement In précis form this material looks like an unlikely walkinto “All About Eve” territory for Assayas, only with more self-reflexivity.But in spite of the superficial dynamics of theyoung-actress-meets/conquers-older-star scenario, which are fully acknowledged,“Clouds of Sils Maria” is oodles more poetic and enigmatic than the term“backstage drama” generally encompasses. It isn’t a story of predatory ambitionor women stabbing each other in the back; all the characters in the movie havetheir reasons, but the film, at least in the show business aspects of itsstory, is concerned with the paradox of self-preservation within an enterprisethat requires you have to invest your trust with so many other people. Artisticcreation begins in the first person singular, but then turns plural, and noteveryone who gets on board makes it all the way to the end of the trip. To thatend, Assayas executes a gambit in the final fifth of the movie that makesmatters all the more enigmatic. It’s almost as if the conflicts the filmdepicts up until this point—rendered in convincing, epigrammatic dialogue andaction, performed with sometimes searing conviction by Binoche and Stewart inparticular—have suddenly been deemed too pat by the filmmaker. His way ofshaking thing up is…intriguing, for sure. It's one of those moves that make a secondviewing worth contemplating. In any event, the pleasures of the acting and theever-acute visuals are apt to make a second viewing a distinct pleasure, evenif it doesn’t solve anything.