Based on a non-fiction account by one of its subjects,real-life journalist Michael Finkel, the movie “True Story” spends much of its90 minutes trying to figure out just what it is. Murder mystery, journalismexposé, courtroom drama, metaphysical inquiry into the secret-sharer nature ofcertain American Bros, proof thatJames FrancoandJonah Hillcan serious-actopposite one another—it seems to be going for any one of these at any givenmoment, and in the end winds up being not a whole lot more than ostentatiouslyunpleasant and ugly. Advertisement Directed by first-time feature filmmaker albeit apparentlywell-acclaimed British stage directorRupert Goold, “True Story” opens with aslow-motion overhead shot of a teddy bear drooping into an open suitcase andlanding next to a child who’s lying in the suitcase in a fetal position. Thechild turns out to be one of the alleged victims of Christian Longo (Franco)who is soon arrested for killing his entire family—a wife and three kids. Cut toHill’s Finkel, in Africa at work on a major story—perhaps his eighth or ninthNew York Times Magazinecover gig, he crows to his wife once he’s back in theStates—and he’s getting some of the detail work wrong, in a way that’s going tobite him in the ass, big time. Exiled from theTimesin disgrace, he retreatsto his VERY cozy modern cabin in wintry Montana and Very Concerned But FairlyUnderstanding Academic Wife Jill (Felicity Jones), where he soon hears from anOregon reporter about a multiple murderer who had been using Finkel’s identityat the time of his capture in Mexico. That would be Longo. Intrigued, Finkelrequests an interview with the accused. The accused accepts. He’s a long-timeadmirer of Finkel’s work, it turns out. He makes Finkel an offer that anyseasoned journalist would admit stinks to high heaven while at the same timepresenting an undeniably potent temptation: If Finkel will keep the story tohimself until after the trial, and “teach” Longo how to write, Longo will givehis story exclusively to the writer whose identity he once pilfered. It’s kind of amusing that in a week in which much of themedia-engaged real world is howling in outrage that an instance of journalisticmalfeasance atRolling Stonehasn’t resulted in a bunch of rolling heads, amovie comes out that tries to make viewers feel bad about the entirelyjustified firing of a newspaper reporter who really did do the stuff he wasaccused by his bosses of doing. Man, King Crimson wasn’t kidding about that 21st-Century-Schizoid-Mancondition. In any event, as per the movie’s version of events, Finkel’s eageracceptance of Longo’s offer makes him look like an opportunist, and then themovie goes on to make him look like a dumb opportunist. Marveling at themacabre memoir Longo sends him on legal pad, Finkel is spooked bycorrespondences: Longo makes weird drawings in the margins of his pages, just likeFinkel does. Jill raises an eyebrow at this, as one will, but the theme ofHuman Duality And Darkness doesn’t get much play. The screenplay, by RupertGoold andDavid Kajganich, means to plant verbal clues here and there that willpay off big time by the end; suffice it to say that to use the phrase “when thepenny drops” to describe the resultant instances would be to severely overvaluethem. (Also, the writers seem to have a poor grasp of what a “double negative”actually is.) The film moves at a relatively clipping pace, but also has aweird sense of contingency, as if the filmmakers are filling in the requiredcomponents of this kind of scenario as they go along. For instance, about anhour into the movie, when all you’ve seen of Longo is in exchanges between himand Finkel, who’s trying desperately to milk a book deal out of hisinvestigation of Longo, you’re liable to think, “Doesn’t this accused killerhave a LAWYER? And if so—because he probably should—why hasn’t Finkel had anycontact with him?” And sure enough, the trial gets underway and yes, Longo DOEShave a lawyer. Strangely enough, it’s about this time in the film that anofficial investigator, played by bullet-headed, active-jawed toughie RobertJohn Burke, leans on doughy, confused-looking Finkel—better tell what you know,kid, because this Longo’s trying to pull a fast one on the jury. This mightelicit an uh-oh from viewers had the film presented any evidence that Longomight not be guilty, except it doesn’t. Finkel thinks he might be innocent,because otherwise all that secret sharer stuff might mean something scary. Butreally, he’s the only one. By the time Longo takes the stand to offer a storyso preposterous on its face (not to mention probably actuariallyunprecedented—I thought ofEdward G. Robinson’s hole-punching insuranceinvestigator in “Double Indemnity” and the fun he’d have with this tale, andalso how much I would have preferred to be watching “Double Indemnity”) thatyou’re surprised the jurors don’t break up laughing at it—well, you have towonder, if this Finkel had almost eightNew York Times Magazinecover storiesto his name, how hard can big-time journalism really be? Advertisement Given that both Hill and Franco conduct themselvesreasonably respectably—I have to give Franco credit for not going fullboogity-boogity Evil Dude with this character, which had to have been atemptation—the blame for this mess needs to be laid at the feet of thefilmmakers. If this mess is what they ended up with after erring with the bestintentions, I feel bad for them. If this is actually the end result they weregoing for, I’d be inclined to use the legal system myself, to file aninjunction against them ever getting near a soundstage again.