Many of the social issue documentaries that attract thegreatest attention—think “An Inconvenient Truth” or “Bowling for Columbine” —combinefocused subjects with authorial points of view that are distinctive, forcefuland individual. Don Hardy andDana Nachman’s “The Human Experiment” lacks thesequalities. Its subject, the threat of manufactured chemicals in theenvironment, is a sprawling, amorphous one. And thoughSean Pennexecutive-produced the film and voices its spare narration, the doc has a verygeneric tone, so much so that it might seem to belong on TV rather than intheaters. Advertisement Yet these characteristics do not fatally undermine the film,which gradually marshals its arguments and evidence in such a way that it endsbeing compelling and illuminating for viewers who are more interested in usefulinformation than artful presentation. Most people will approach the film having heard that concernover chemicals in the environment has grown in the last couple of decades astheir mounting use has been paralleled by dramatic rises in maladies rangingfrom birth defects to various cancers to autism. There’s not just a handful ofsuch chemicals setting off alarm bells; there are hundreds. The illnessesthey’re linked to are also legion, while the connections between them aresometimes more strongly circumstantial than fully established. “The Human Experiment” starts out by sketching in the rangeof these phenomena via interviews with people who’ve had medical problems thatare thought to be chemically related and doctors who’ve been studying them. Thenarrative soon enough turns to the economic and political forces behind theoverall situation. These chemicals came into the environment, of course,because they were profitable for the companies that marketed them. Any thatpreceded the first efforts at government regulation were effectively“grandfathered in” so that their use couldn’t be challenged, and newer oneswere introduced without full-scale testing or oversight. Then, whenenvironmentalists began probing their links to various problems, the companiesput profits before public safety, throwing up p.r. smokescreens aimed atinhibiting public awareness and government action. The game plan they followed was the one used so successfullyfor decades by the tobacco industry (and probed in greater detail in RobertKenner’s “Merchants of Doubt”): from sewing doubt about the actual science tocreating their own bogus data and “experts,” the companies positionedthemselves as champions of personal liberty, saying that using their products—nomatter how questionable—was a matter of individual choice. Needless to say,they were simultaneously able to throw tons more money into lobbying than theiropponents were. Advertisement One example of how this worked is explored in the case offlame retardants used on fabrics and other materials. In 1975, Californiapassed a law requiring their use. In recent years, as the chemicals inretardants were shown to be environmentally hazardous and their effectivenessin preventing fire deaths was questioned, a group called Citizens for FireSafety began running ads advocating their continued use as a way of protectingchildren—a seemingly laudable goal. Yet the group was not the grassrootsactivists organization it appeared to be but a front created by the AmericanChemical Association. Eventually, the ruse was exposed and efforts to changeCalifornia’s law succeeded. For much of its length, “The Human Experiment” can feelrepetitious, as we see a succession of blandly-shot talking heads discoursingon one chemically-related problem after another. Of course, autism and breastcancer are very different sorts of problems, but the film’s treatment of themeffectively just adds them to a long list of ailments that scientists havelinked to environmental causes. Yet in its last third, the film moves frompresenting the problems to showing how there is movement toward solving some ofthem—a movement with notable developments on two fronts. At the international level, Europe has taken the lead inrestricting environmental hazards and requiring chemical companies to prove thesafety of their products before they are introduced. These policies have beenstudied by many non-European countries, with the result that their model hastaken hold in nations as far-flung and environmentally crucial as India andChina. And you can bet some Americans are startled to learn China has certainenvironmental protections that are better than those in the U.S. Advertisement But there’s movement in America too, much of it on the stateand local levels. That’s where “The Human Experiment” become most engaging: byshowing how a lot of ordinary Americans in diverse locales get concerned aboutthese problems—often by being affected by them personally—then educatethemselves and start working with friends and neighbors and sympatheticlawmakers to change the relevant laws. It’s a heartening example of democracy in action. Spreadingawareness of the problems and their potential solutions is a big part of theprocess, and in that sense, “The Human Experiment” itself will be a useful toolfor those involved in these multi-pronged battles.