Afterwatching the first 20 minutes or so of the new romantic drama "Felix andMeira" without being especially impressed with anything that I had seen upto that point, I began to fear that there might be a certain cultural dividethat was keeping me at arm's length from a dramatic standpoint. After all, ittells a story that deals in part with the customs of the Hasidic Jewishcommunity and as someone who could politely be described from a theologicalperspective as a lapsed Lutheran at best, it could be argued that there wassomething in the nuances that I just wasn't getting and which was preventing mefrom embracing the story either narratively or emotionally. As it went on,however, I was relieved to discover that my problems with the film were not theresult of any spiritual shortcomings on my part but from the inescapable factthat it tells a not-especially-interesting story about anot-especially-interesting couple from two different worlds that goes on and onbefore reaching its not-especially-interesting conclusion. Advertisement Meira(Hadas Yaron) is a miserably unhappy young woman who is feeling increasinglysmothered by her uber-orthodox husband Shulem (Luzer Twersky) and theclosed-off Hasidic community where they reside in Montreal—other than heryoung daughter and the pop music that she secretly listens to as a releaseafter Shulem leaves the house to attend morning prayers, her life is as greyand lifeless as the slushy city streets. Felix (Martin Dubreuil) is an aginghipster with no apparent attachments—emotional, spiritual or professional—tospeak of who has returned to visit his estranged father on hisdeathbed. Although devoid of any of the encumbrances that are tying Meira down,he also finds himself similarly trapped in a spiritual prison from which escapeseems impossible. After aninitial meeting in a local pizza shop, Felix encounters Meira on the street oneday following his father's death and chats her up with the deathless pickupline "Can you give me advice? You are religious and I don't know what Iam." Okay, it doesn't sound like much and even Meira rejects his companyat first but before long, she turns up on his doorstep and a friendship beginsto develop between these two people from different worlds. For her, theseencounters allow her to indulge in small rebellions, ranging from trying on apair of blue jeans to looking a man in the eye while talking to him, that donot go unnoticed by Shulem. For Felix, he also begins to come out of his shelland when it seems as though he will no longer be able to see Meira again, hegoes so far as to dress up in Hasidic garb in order to infiltrate her communityand get close to her. Intheory, this all sounds nice enough and I suppose I can see how it might havebeen spun out into a compelling film, provided that an interesting narrativeand characters were part of the package. That, alas, is wheredirector/co-writerMaxime Girouxcomes up short. The lives of these twocharacters may be airless and stultifying but unfortunately, so are theirstories. We barely get to know anything about who Felix and Meira are, how theyfound themselves in their current circumstances or what it is that they see ineach other that serves as a counterpoint to their current existences—frankly,they often seem just as glum when they are together as apart.Giroux doesn't seem particularly interested in fleshing them out for the mostpart, instead preferring to spend his time on such unlikely twists as Felixdisguising himself (which may have been conceived as a comedic touch but whichis played so heavily that whatever laughs might have been there never come) oran inexplicable later meeting between Felix and Shulem. The only moments ofreal emotional release come with a couple of deft soundtrack choices—WendyRene's "After Laughter Comes Tears" as Meira's illicit musicalselection, an old video of Sister Louise Tharpe rocking out on a train platformand Leonard Cohen's "Famous Blue Raincoat" swelling up as Meirawatches a couple making love through a window while standing on a darkstreet—but in those cases, the achievement belongs to the film's soundtrack supervisorand not to Giroux. Advertisement Back tomy initial statement about how I thought at first that my problem with"Felix and Meira" was a cultural one. One of the reasons I was ableto dismiss that notion was because I remembered a movie that dealt with the Hasidiccommunity that I really did like from a couple of years ago entitled "Fillthe Void." Coincidentally, that film also starred Hadas Yaron—whoseperformance is the best thing here, it should be noted—and told the story of ayoung woman being pressured to marry the much older husband of her recentlydeceased sister, a move that will satisfy the needs of the community but whichholds little appeal to her personally. By telling the tale of a woman yearningto escape such a situation despite the overwhelming odds, "Felix andMeira" is essentially the inverse of "Fill the Void" from adramatic standpoint. Sadly, it turns out to be the inverse of that film from aqualitative standpoint as well.