The formal experiment of "Unfriended" isintriguing. Here is a movie that takes place in real time and in whicheverything we see is limited to whatever is on the screen of the maincharacter's computer. The concept is not new, of course, although this might bethe first time that such a conceit is portrayed without any attempt atembellishment. Director Levan Gabriadze and screenwriterNelson Greavesrestrict the characters to the space immediately near their computers, save fora moment in which one character picks up his laptop and walks around his house. Advertisement Otherwise, we're witnessing a lengthy conversationbetween a group of six teenagers that switches between video-chat andtext-messaging sessions. That is until a supernatural force makes it aconversation between five teenagers, and then four, and so on and so forth. The movie possesses two fatal miscalculations: 1.) All ofthese characters are self-absorbed, unsympathetic bores; 2.) It simply isnot very interesting to watch video chats and text messages, particularly whenthe participants are of the sort described in item No. 1. The majority of themovie is spent staring at static web browser and program windows on Blaire's(Shelley Hennig) desktop. Within those windows are smaller video boxesfeaturing close-ups of her friends or text bubbles featuring the writtenexchanges between two characters in the typical, lazy shorthand of onlinecommunication. One imagines the shortcut to a dictionary program in the bottomleft of the screen is an inside joke for those who prefer proper spelling andgrammar in their written communiqués. Through these exchanges, we learn that, a year ago to the day, a teenage girl named Laura (Heather Sossaman) committed suicide aftera video of her in an embarrassing, drunken stupor emerged online. Blaire andher boyfriend Mitch (Moses Jacob Storm) start a sexually charged video chatthat involves him wielding a knife and "jokingly" threatening herwith it if she doesn't remove her shirt. He's a real stand-up guy, that Mitch. Their conversation is interrupted by a group chat withthree other friends: generic best friend Adam (Will Peltz), stuck-up brat Jess(Renee Olstead), and requisite computer whiz Ken (Jacob Wysocki). Later, the slightly-less-stuck-upVal (Courtney Halverson) joins them, but the friends' communications are alsobeing monitored by an anonymous user who seems to have access to all of Laura'sonline accounts. Maybe the link to an online forum post with the title "DONOT ANSWER MESSAGES FROM A DEAD PERSON" is a warning. The capitalizedletters certainly seem to be a giveaway. The story about a woman who answered atext message from her dead husband and killed herself a week later isdefinitely one. Superficially, this is a horror movie, although itsdistinct lack of such important elements as mounting suspense and genuinescares forces us to think otherwise. As suggested before, the movie is anattempt to accurately recreate the experience of a lengthy stay in front of acomputer screen. As such, most of the movie's stabs at tension involve staringat the spinning circle of a video that's loading, the long pauses betweeninstant messages when the person on the other end is occupied with somethingelse, watching files download, and Blaire typing and deleting—and re-typing andagain deleting—various messages to the ghost in the machine that is probablythe spirit of the girl that she and her friends drove to commit suicide. By theway, almost all of the characters state in one way or another that Laura"had it coming." They're such relatable people, this lot. Advertisement The characters, of course, must die off one at a time. Theydo eventually and in increasingly silly, confounding ways that Gabriadze milksfor cheap, blatant jump scares (The final, anticlimactic one especially feelslike a rushed afterthought). A little bit of credit is due to Greaves'screenplay for creating a techno-ghost with a sense of humor. In between theobvious moments of terrorizing its victims, the phantom plays with the teens'insecurities and secrets. After a sexual betrayal is revealed, Blaire'splaylist of contemporary pop music is replaced with an oldie about lying. Themovie's funniest scenes are unintentional, such as a lengthy game of"Never Have I Ever" that quickly turns into a melodramatic showdownand two uses of a blender that the appliance's inventor likely never imagined. In case it isn't clear by now, the movie has a message:Cyber-bullying is bad. "Unfriended" is, one supposes, partially anoverblown attempt to scare people straight about that despicable trend, butinstead, the movie might just make people associate bullying with a hollow,tedious endeavor that lacks any satisfaction. Hey, that could work, too.