An affectionate cinematic paean to a form of West Coastbohemia that could well be on its last legs, “Alex of Venice,” directed byyoung actorChris Messina(best known for a recurring role on “The MindyProject”) and featuring an impeccable-as-usual lead performance from MaryElizabeth Winstead, is likely to appeal more to viewers who have some previouslyexisting allegiance to/affinity with its cast or its milieu than those whodon’t. Winstead plays the title character, an attorney who worksfor an environmental activism group, and she’s very good at her job and verydevoted to it. Her home arrangement is rather unusual: she lives in a greatramshackle house with her partner George (Messina), their young son Dakota(Skylar Gaertner), and Alex’s dad Roger (Don Johnson), a one-time TV star who’squick with an encroaching-old-age-defying inappropriate remark. The cooking,the cleaning, the looking-after-the-kid, not to mention keeping track ofincreasingly inattentive Roger’s appointments, has finally gotten to be toomuch for George, and the failed house-husband bails. Alex is left to handle animportant case involving a tadpole-destroying spa development supervised byslick but not uncaring entrepreneur (Derek Luke) and tend to her withdrawn sonand manage her motley household all by her lonesome. Roger, who gets broughtdown a peg at a theater audition by being asked to audition for the oldest rolein “The Cherry Orchard” rather than the younger one he started reading for,calls the cavalry in the form of Alex’s wild-child sister Lily (Katie Nehra,who wrote the script withJessica GoldbergandJustin Shilton). Lily’s just assalty-mouthed as dad but a bit more of a help, and she of course is the triggerwoman for the “you are going to have sex tonight” scene that’s becomeobligatory in low-budget character-driven American films in which an attractivefemale lead is dumped early on in the diegesis. Advertisement If you think I’m saying the movie is a tad predictable, Iam. Additionally, I found it a little pat. Film people like to quote the lategreat directorJean Renoir, an adage about how the truly terrible thing in thisworld is that everyone has their reasons; Renoir the man didn’t actually saythat, a character he played and wrote in “Rules of the Game” said it, but nevermind; in any event, it always springs to mind when I see a movie such as this,which goes out of its way to be very scrupulous in not making villains out ofany of its characters. “Alex of Venice” is a pleasant sit; it only rarelydisturbs one’s precious bodily fluids with an irritating non-observation (Alexprotests at one point that she doesn’t know how to grill a steak, and this islater confirmed, albeit in a way that suggests she couldn’t even try toextrapolate how raw meat interacts with fire), but it’s so even-tempered that acrankier viewer than myself might accuse it of slathering bland compassion onits characters like California sunshine pouring through a verytastefully-opened aperture. Or of over-indulging a variation of indie-pophumanism/compassion that had long curdled into cliché. Messina’s fondness for abouncily mobile camera, happily taking in all the all-too-human interaction,increases the feeling of forced likeability. But the film isn’t completelyclueless about how to use its assets. Winstead is entirely attractive andterrifically alert and alive throughout. The whole business with “The CherryOrchard,” which seems a trifle know-somethingish at first, pays off with areally lovely climactic scene, which the ever-underrated Johnson brings homewith a grace that’s both sly and warm-hearted. And the movie’s quirky settingpays off dividends where you least expect them. At such moments, the movie’shumanism finally seems unforced, and everything is the better for that.