This weekend’s Communist periodpiece “Child 44” has suffered anincriminating fate that even “PaulBlart: Mall Cop 2” avoided: Russiabanned it right before its release, stating that the film reflected upon thenation with evocations of Mordor (the evil land from J.R.R. Tolkien’s “Lord of the Rings”), and in anequally damning move, the film was not screened for critics in many majorcities. But unlike some of Hollywood’s stranger tales about film releases, “Child 44” doesn’tneed Hobbit-loving Russian government officials to equate it the land of Orcs,or for no one in other countries to know this movie exists, to earn its legacyas a blotch on the resumes of many talented people. “Child 44” is a fiasco by itsown free will. Advertisement DirectorDaniel Espinosa’s (“Easy Money,” “Safe House”) bungled epic,based on the novel fromTom Rob Smith, tells of sons and daughters of MotherRussia who are lost within Communism’s inhumanity. They live in a societythat claims to be Eden, but a brutal history of orphan-making famine, alongwith day-to-day dictatorial lunacy, suggests otherwise. Though the quote isnever sourced, many of the characters in this world have been programmed tobelieve in the same motto: “Thereis no murder in paradise.” The USSR’s main orphan in “Child 44” is Leo Demidov (TomHardy). His parents died in the Holodomor famine in the Ukraine in the 1930s,but he found a new family within Russian military, and was deemed a war herowhen seen on newspapers brandishing a Soviet flag after the Reichstag in 1945.A few years later, in Moscow, he makes his living hunting traitors (such asJason Clarke’sAnatoly) with comrades Vasili (Joel Kinnaman) and Alexei (Fares Fares), whilemarried to a schoolteacher,Noomi Rapace’s Raisa, who couldnot harbor any less adoration for her husband. “Child 44” spends its time following Leo as heleads the way for a society that creates paranoia, in which, as Anatolydeclares, “When you arearrested, you are already guilty.” The film eventuallylumbers to its actual narrative center, when Alexei’s young son isfound dead. Because murder does not exist in Russia, the government rules thatthe boy was hit by a train, but Alexei, his family, and even the coroner knowthat a fellow Russian is to blame. Though a rational man, Leo stands behind theruling, fearing to be listed as a traitor by his superior Major Kuzmin (VincentCassel) if he challenges the government, and he suggests Alexei do the same. Such efforts provepointless when Raisa is revealed to be an informant during interrogations onAnatoly. Because Leo did not turn her in himself, the couple are exiled to theindustrial town of Volsk, where another boy is found dead, in a similarlygruesome display. Working under his new superior General Mikhail Nesterov (GaryOldman), Leo begins to accept that this ain’t no coincidence,and starts a controversial hunt to find the murderer, in order to prove againsthis government’sdelusion about excusing itself from classifications of homicide. Advertisement The film is loadedwith actors who continue to be reliable. Hardy’s charisma is asteal for any production that can get him, and the added support of Rapace,Oldman, and Kinnaman provides particular dramatic security. The story may feelendless, but they do not forfeit. As the cast collectively saturates fictionalbeings who deserve to be in a better-realized film, they prove to not be theproblem of “Child 44.” With theseperformances, it’sthose pesky Russian accents that many of its Hollywood actors speak. They aren’t ruinous due toquestions of authenticity, but in how some garble their words. Lost key wordsspoken by characters pile on the avoidable bugaboos. The most nagging oneinvolvesVincent Casseldescribing what murder is considered to be in theSoviet Union. It’ssuch a climactic declaration that the film’s trailer treats itprominently. Even there, as I listen over and over, it makes no sense. Theline: “Murder is strictlya …Capillary’s disease?Captaineersdisease?Captainesedisease? Water on the knee?" An ancient sayingstates that a film is written three times - in the screenplay, on set, and inthe editing room. The many narrative strands of “Child 44”could have been tangled in any one ofthese stages, but it feels most of all to be the result of various editingerrors, creating a final product that is equally bloated and scatterbrained.Instead of narrowing in on Hardy’s go-getter questioning his blindobedience during this murder investigation, “Child44”wants an ensemblecharacter scope that it can’t handle. In smaller doses, somescenes are far too choppy, information and cohesion be damned, whether itsvicious hand-to-hand scuffles or facile exchanges of dialogue. On the otherhand, the film doesn’t hesitate to treat other scenes asopportunities for rants about the terrors of Communism, as with a barbaric,homophobic witch-hunt that garners a five-minute narrative diversion (a scenethat suggests provoking some Russian moviegoers, indeed). Or, when famishedstory-lines need to be kicked back into action, the editing never resistshelping characters find each other with impeccable timing, or eventually givingin and just showing us the murderer, because everyone else is too slow.In the end, thestrangest mystery of “Child 44” involves Espinosa: Where did he lose focus? His previous two films, “Easy Money” (which waspresented by     Martin Scorsese    ) and “SafeHouse” affirm that thecentral narrative of “Child 44” is right in hiscrosshairs. (I’d more readilytrust him with a Jason Bourne movie than I would a sweeping Russian epic, but Idigress.) Instead, he’s only able tocontinue crafting sturdy performances that present a few bursts of curiousmoral quandaries. The overall tightness that elevated him from “Easy Money”to “Safe House,” however, is lost.     While“Child 44” now has somestrange release date tales, there are none to be heard yet about any vigorousre-writes, re-shoots, or re-edits that would suggest the film was headed downan alternate narrative course. Well, nosuch mentions that have been admitted to the public, at least.Advertisement