Playing cat and mouse with kidnappers can be a grisly andawful business even if­—or maybe the phrase should be “particularly if”—thekidnappers are dumb as dirt. That’s one of the takeaways of “24 Days,” awell-engineered suspense drama from France directed byAlexandre Arcady. Themovie, starringZabou Breitman, Jacque Gamblin,Pascal Elbé,Sylvie Testud, andTony Harrisson, has a more upsetting dimension than most suspense dramas asit’s based on a true story, a story that touches on issues still roiling Francetoday. Advertisement The movie begins with Breitman, in the role of Ruth Halimi,directly addressing the camera, and asking, “How could this happen in France in2006?” The kidnapping of Halimi’s son, Ilan, is what happened to begin with.Arcady shows Ilan’s family preparing for a group meal and going into loud shockon learning of Ilan’s abduction; particularly searing is the photo of Ilan withhis eyes and mouth duct-taped, with a gun to his head. Ruth and her ex-husbandDidier (Elbé) go to the police. The head of the investigation, Delcour(Gamblin), is competent and highly invested, as is his crew, as is thepsychologist/negotiation expert Brigitte Farrell (Testud) who works with Didieron the phone calls from the ransom-demander whose name they don’t know yet. Hisminions, underclass kids of all ethnicities, know him as “Django,” and theydon’t dare cross him. But Django, whose real name is Fofana, and who shuttlesbetween Paris and his ancestral home of the Ivory Coast of Africa, isn’t quiteas much of a mastermind as he conceives himself. His original scheme was tokidnap a Jew, a strategy borne not so much out of race hate per se (althoughit’s there) as a conviction that, good grief, “Jews have all the money.” Notonly do they have all the money, but also they stick together and bail outtheir own. As it happens none of the Halimis are rich, or even particularlyaffluent. But Fofana’s accomplices are pretty dim, and pretty sadistic. And asthe captivity drags on, Ruth is reminded of the case ofDaniel Pearl. WhenFofana taunts the victim’s parents with a reading from the Koran, it’s aparticularly sick-making moment. Arcady’s direction is tight and efficient throughout (thesecond unit was handled byAlexandre Aja, a former protégé of Arcady—his son,to be precise—who’s made an, um, interesting career in American horrorpictures) and overstated at times, although by Hollywood standard his modes ofoverstatement (slow motion shots of characters turning around as they makesudden terrifying realizations, and so on) are almost subtle! But his handlingof the story’s very ugly twists and turns, particularly as the appalling Fofanagrows more truculent in his demands, is unimpeachable. As for its socialanalysis, it’s tough for non-residents of France to judge it. It’s pretty clearthat the film falls squarely on the side of Ruth, who campaigned for theauthorities to acknowledge that anti-Semitism was at least an aggravatingfactor in the case. And of course anti-Semitism is a French cultural issuegoing back to even before the Dreyfus case. These days the country hasimmigration, so-called radical Islam, and other factors in this mix. Advertisement The finaleof the movie could arguably be said to offload the anti-Semitism concern onto anon-French-born person of color, which may strike some social-justice-sensitivetypes as…what’s the word?...”problematic.” Sometimes the problem with findingthings “problematic” is the fact staring you in the face: Fofana the individualdid, as it happened, do all the awful things of which he was accused. His lastwords in the film are “F**k France, bitches,” which, yes, in the context ofthis presentation are pretty “on the nose.” On the other hand, it sounds likesomething the real-life Fofana would actually say. What are you going to do?