John Travoltahas appeared in a number of legitimately great filmsthat will live on in the annals of cinema history—"Saturday NightFever," "Blow Out" and "Pulp Fiction" immediatelyleap to mind. He has also, to put it charitably, aligned himself with plenty ofjaw-droppingly awful endeavors over the years—rather than dredge up painfulmemories, let me just say that the infamous "Battlefield Earth" isnot even close to being the low point of his oeuvre. His latest vehicle,"The Forger," falls somewhere in the middle of those two extremes. Itis nowhere close to being the worst thing that he has ever done, but it never for a single moment makes a plausible case forits own existence. Advertisement Travolta plays Raymond Cutter, a Boston-based thief and art forger who, with 10months left to serve on his prison sentence, makes a deal with Kragen (AnsonMount), the very same thug who landed him in the stir in the first place to gethim an early release. Of course, his former adversary is not doing this out ofthe goodness of his own heart—he wants Raymond to use his particular set ofskills to pull the proverbial one last job. As such things go, this one is adoozy. In order to satisfy a debt of his own, Kragen is forcing Raymond tofirst paint a forgery of Monet's "The Promenade, Woman with a Parasol"and then break into a local museum to steal the real painting and replace itwith the fake so that no one will ever suspect a thing. To complicate thingseven further, an undercover DEA agent (Abigal Spencer) picks up his trail. Why wouldRaymond put himself through all of this? Well, it turns out that he wanted outof jail early in order to spend more time with Will (Tye Sheridan), hisestranged 15-year-old son who is suffering from an inoperable brain tumor, andwho has been living with his own irascible father (Christopher Plummer) duringhis stretch in the stir. Desperate to make some kind of connection with thekid, Raymond decides to serve as Will's personal Make-a-Wish foundation andoffers to grant Will three wishes. The first two are easy enough in theory—hesets up a first-ever meeting between the kid and his mom (Jennifer Ehle), amessed-up junkie who bailed as soon as he was born, and then arranges to haveWill relieved of his virginity. As forwish #3, I wouldn't dream of revealing it but I have a sneaking suspicion thatif you have read this far, you can probably guess what it is. Inessence, "The Forger" is a collision between two time-honored screengenres—the heist thriller and the sentimental tragic tearjerker—but in thisparticular case, the ensuing cinematic Reese's Cup is well near indigestiblesince the two parts never really work, either separately or together. Whilewatching it, I got the sense that screenwriterRichard D'Ovidiowas so pleasedwith coming up with the gimmick of combining the two narrative elements that hejust never got around to making them into a dramatically satisfying whole. Thedetails of the heist are so preposterous that they make the "Ocean'sEleven" films seem taut and plausible by comparison, and they don't offerviewers anything that they haven't seen before beyond a couple of interestingdetails about the basic mechanics required to forge a great piece of art.Beyond that, the stuff involving the DEA agent is highly superfluous and thefinale is a letdown even by dopey caper movie standards. Advertisement That partof the film, however, is vastly preferable to the stuff involving the sick kidand the resulting familial bonding. This stuff is pretty ghastly in the way ittries to hard-sell the sentimental aspects without actually earning any of theemotions that it is trying to provoke, and, to make matters worse, none of itpays off in a dramatically satisfactory or logically sound manner either. Forhis part, directorPhilip Martinis content to just let things plod along in themost pedestrian manner imaginable. (The greatJohn Baileyserves here as cinematographer but there isnothing about the bland visuals to suggest that they come from the same manbehind the visually striking "Cat People" and "Mishima," toname but a couple of his past credits.) Althoughthe three lead actors are all working under serious impediments—Travolta hasbeen equipped with a singularly ridiculous soul patch and a Boston accent thatruns the gamut from non-existent to "SNL" sketch broadness,oftentimes in the same scene, Plummer has a role that all but insists on beingplayed in the hammiest manner imaginable and Sheridan (whose previous filmshave included such better projects as "The Tree of Life,""Mud" and "Joe") is playing a contrivance instead of acharacter—they are not without a certain innate charm, and indeed, the bestscenes here are the ones in which they are simply allowed to interact andbounce off of each other in a relaxed manner before having to return to themechanics of the increasingly forced plot. Aside from those moments, "TheForger" is the kind of instantly forgettable drag that will include ascene in which the characters are watching a movie on TV ("D.O.A." inthis case) and when it is about to cut to something else, most audience memberswill think to themselves "I'll watch what they're watching."