Comedian and actorNick Krollis a maestro at abrasivecaricature. His Comedy Central series “Kroll Show” saw him relentlesslylampooning ego-driven minor media figures of all shapes, sizes and sexes. He’sgood at what he does, but as is the case with most people who do what he does,he’s susceptible to the temptation to show a softer side as a performer. As whowouldn’t be, except apparently maybeDon Rickles? (Unless there was a “veryspecial episode” of “CPO Sharkey” that I somehow missed.) Advertisement These days, the way such a performer stretches is via alow-budget indie character study type thing, usually centered on some sort ofdysfunctional family dynamic. For Kroll, this vehicle is “Adult Beginners,” afilm for which the comedian himself concocted the scenario. Kroll plays Jake, atech entrepreneur we first see living the high life of geek gurudom via venturecapital: spouting blustery jargon, hoovering rails, inveigling the amorousaffections of a not-entirely-bright young thing in ornate antique bathtub of amoneyed friend’s apartment. Before Jake can seal that particular deal, theproject that was going to make him a rich man flops before it’s evenmanufactured, leaving him penniless, homeless, and with a lot of pissed offaffluent ex-friends. What can Jake do but return to the bosom of his family,or what’s left of it: his ancestral home on Long Island, now occupied by hissister Justine (Rose Byrne), her husband Danny (Bobby Cannavale), and theirwinsome adorable toddler Teddy (played by twin winsome adorable toddlers Caleband Matthew Paddock). Justine’s got another baby on the way, and is cool withletting Jake crash, as long as he helps out around the house. Jake proteststhat he’s no good with kids—arrogant, egocentric, endlessly snarky, he doesn’tseem to be much good with anything, frankly—but a deal’s a deal. And so hebegins looking after the fella. You see where this is going, right? Well, kinda. What theycall the “character arc” here is something that’s reasonably familiar:irritating shallow dude or dudette is softened up by adorable wide-eyedcreature, takes some steps toward redemption, then has semi-catastrophicrelapse into irritating shallowness again, makes an even bigger mess than he orshe was getting out of in the first place, and then has to work that muchharder to prove that after all he or she really DID get the Life Lesson thatwas staring them in the face the whole time. Yes, that is pretty much whathappens here, but fortunately, it’s not quite as tritely done as it may havebeen. In point of fact, the awkward-crank-interacting-with-child business isthe most unengaging stuff in the movie. Advertisement But Kroll’s scenes with both Byrne andCannavale have both sharpness and sensitivity, especially after Jake discoverssome of the rifts in Danny and Justine’s marriage, and also begins to come toterms with his selfish behavior during his mother’s illness. Do they pullenough weight to make a really substantial movie out of “Adult Beginners?” Notquite. The conventions of the contemporary character-driven ethnicallymonochromatic independent film, including the filling out of the cast with nameactors whose contributions are rather transparently circumscribed (forinstance,Jane Krakowskias a swimming instructor whose curriculum gives themovie its title, and whose character is only ever seen inside the same swimmingpool), while not entirely grating, do keep the movie in a generic slough ofsorts. If you’re a big booster of any of the lead actors (I’m something of aCannavale partisan myself), this will be worth your time.