Atone point in "Avengers: Age of Ultron," the hammer-swinging superhero Thor(Chris Hemsworth) tells the android villain Ultron (James Spader) that “there’sno need to break anything.” “Clearly you’ve never made an omelet,” Ultronreplies. It's nice when a movie hands you a metaphor like that. The second “Avengers” is a gigantic omelet combining everything inwriter-director Joss Whedon's refrigerator, pantry and spice rack, and dozens ofeggs are broken in its creation. This film about a team of good guys battling a brilliant, genocidal robot is bigger, louder and more disjointed thanthe first "Avengers”—which, like this new installment, was a crescendopicture, meant to merge strands from solo superhero movies within the MarvelUniverse. But it’s also got morepersonality—specifically Whedon’s—than any other film in the now seven-year-old franchise. And in its growing pains you can see a future in which thesecorporate movies might indeed be art, or at least unique expressions, ratherthan monotonous quarterly displays of things crashing into other things, with splashes of personality designed to fool people into thinking they're not just widgets stamped out in Marvel's hit factory.Advertisement Youshouldn’t go into it expecting a smooth ride, and you should know that thereare basic ways in which it's not up to snuff. There's too much over-edited"coverage" by multiple cameras, as opposed to true direction with purposeand flair. (Marvel farms out the planning of its action scenes to second unitcrews and special effects artists long before the actors arrive on set, whichmight account for the choppy, incoherent, “just get it done” feeling of some earlyshowdowns.) It isn't until the final third that the movie's destructo-ramasdevelop personalities as distinctive as the film's dialogue scenes. Between Captain America (Chris Evans), Iron Man (RobertDowney, Jr.), Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), the Hulk (Mark Ruffalo),Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner) and Thor; a number of supporting andcameo players; and several new leads, including Ultron’s henchpersons, thetwins Quicksilver (Aaron Taylor-Johnson) and Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen), theremight just be too many characters, even for a two-and-a-half-hour movie. (Whedon's pre-release cut came in atthree-plus hours; could this be one of those rare cases where longer is better?) The film will do nothing to quell complaints that the superhero genre is sexist: Black Widow is involved in yet another relationship with a male Avenger and burdened with a tragic backstory equating motherhood with womanly fulfillment, and while Scarlet Witch has some pleasingly Carrie-like rampages, she isn't given enough to do.Still, given the band-of-heroes conceit and the mandate to serve as a high point in anongoing mega-narrative, it’s hard to imagine "Age of Ultron" handily dispatching anyof these problems. And as in the first “Avengers,” which was also overstuffed, Whedon manages to refine the main players’ personalities and set them againsteach other, often in logistically complex conversations between five or more people: action scenes of a different sort.Captain America and Tony Stark/Iron Man are at the heart of this one. They’re always more intriguingwhen set against each other than when they’re claiming the spotlight in theirown movies, but Whedon, who also serves as a consultant and dialogue polisheron other Marvel entries, has taken their conflict a step further bydrawing on events in “Iron Man 3” and “Captain America: The Winter Soldier.”It’s Stark who creates the titular bad guy—with the reluctant help of scientistand part-time Hulk Bruce Banner—in response to traumahe suffered while battling Thor’s brother Loki and his extraterrestrial alliesin the first “Avengers.” Ultron is supposed to serve as a Skynet-like artificialintelligence network that detects apocalyptic threats and swiftly destroysthem. Cap saw the horrific outgrowth of this mentality in the second “CaptainAmerica," in which millions of alleged terrorists were nearly  wiped out by S.H.I.E.L.D. in simultaneous extra-judicial assassinations. Cap is appalled both by the Ultron project itself and the fact thatStark started it in secret because he “didn’t want to hear the ‘man-is-not-meant-to-meddlemedley’” from his fellow Avengers. He was right to worry. Like many a sci-fi robot or Frankenstein’s monster, the creature hasa different idea of what constitutes a threat (spoiler: it’s us).All of which makes "Age of Ultron" a metaphorical working-through of America's War on Terror, with Cap representing a principled, transparentmilitary, answering to civilian authority, and Stark as the more paternalisticmilitary-industrial response to 9/11 type threats, treating the masses asunruly kids who aren't allowed a voice on grounds that all they’ll do is squabbleand finger-point while theenemy-du-jourgathers strength. There areaccusations of hypocrisy from both sides. Some of Whedon’s dialogue has thesting of political satire: Cap warns Tony that “every time someone tries to wina war before it starts, people die,” a not-too-veiled slap at post-9/11American foreign policy, while Ultron chides Cap as “God's righteous man, pretending you can livewithout a war,” a comment that indicts the United States itself, if you readCap as a beefed-up Uncle Sam. Ultron, meanwhile, is another example of faith intechnology run amok. He fancies himself a robot deity and creates other,smaller robots in his own image (all of which speak in Spader’s voice), buthe’s the sadistic God of “King Lear,” a wanton boy smiting flies for sport. Advertisement Forall its missteps, "Age of Ultron" is remarkable. Ifit’s a failure, as many critics insist, it’s a failure like AngLee’s “Hulk,” “Superman Returns” or “The Dark Knight Rises,” which is to saythat it’s much more distinctively personal than most of the superhero movies whose titles are synonyms for success. There are points where the movie evokes not other Marvel spectaculars, butWhedon TV series like “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” and “Angel,” where thefun came from watching heroes and villains who were aware of themselvesas heroes and villains work through psychological issues while trading screwball comedy dialogue along with body blows. In its lumpy-porridge way, this film makes abetter case than any other Marvel picture for the notion thatquarter-billion-dollar-budgeted, CGI-festooned slabs of multimedia synergy can beart, too, provided they're made by an artist with a vision, and saidartist appears to be in control of at least part of the production. (I say "part" because Whedon ison record suggesting that this movie’s production broke his spirits; that could mean thatwhat we’re seeing onscreen is the best he can do, consideringthat the trueauteursof the Marvel films are executive producerKevin Feigeand his marketing department.) Amidthe usual quota of quips and lightning and robots and explosions are moments ofpathos, splendor, sentiment, and operatic horror. There’s quotable dialogue,delivered with the deadpan camaraderie ofHoward Hawks("Bringing upBaby," "Rio Bravo’), and scenes that evoke earlier classics without feeling too obviously like homages. The interactionbetween Black Widow and her erstwhile sweetheart, Bruce Banner, channels King Kong: she interrupts his Hulk-outs by holding up a slender hand with slightly curved fingers, and after a moment's hesitation, the green giant reachesout in kind, like a curious ape touching his reflection in a fun-housemirror. A lyrical slow-motion set-piece sees the Avengers battling wavesof Ultron’s android minions in a ruined cathedral, like the Bishop gang fendingoff Mapache’s army in “The Wild Bunch." The circling camera movements are echoed in the film's credits sequence, which visualizes the film's heroes and villains as figures in a classical sculpture: Marvel in marble. The design touches are swell: Ultron might be the mostovertly Jack Kirby-esque apparition in any Marvel film, his expressiveface comprised of thin, overlapping plates.Key lines tease out the superhero genre's kinship to horror. "Maybe I am a monster," a character admits. "I'm not sure that I would know if I were one." Conversations and monologues consider the relationship between chaos and control, creation and destruction that drives not just action cinema but life itself. "When the universe starts to settle," Ultron says, "God throws a stone at it." Most surprising and welcome of all is the way Whedon builds criticism of the superhero genre's disinterest in property destruction and civilian casualties (displayed most callously in "Man of Steel") into the plot. "Ultron can't tell the difference between saving the world and destroying it," Scarlet Witch chides. "Where do you think he gets that?"Advertisement Itwould be silly to position Marvel or Whedon or their fan army as underdogs. Once a niche genre, superhero films are now practically the official culture of the United States, and this entry will make a fortune no matter what anyone says about it. Still, Ihope that even as people buy tickets out of habit,they'll see that there is, in fact, art happening on the screen, maybe forthe first time since Marvel's march through American cinema started. "Age of Ultron" proves that a movie with stealth fighter jets,levitating cities and Hulk-on-robot fisticuffs can be as freewheeling as a no-budget indie. It's a shame to think that this film will be dog-piled for its imperfections rather than applauded for trying to provethat a seemingly inflexible genre can bend into strange and surprising shapes.