Youth may be rebellious but adulthood can be repellent.Maturity certainly fails to equal responsibility or morality in HBO’smini-series “The Casual Vacancy,” premiering tomorrow night, April 29th,2015, and finishing up the next night. It’s an import from the BBC adaptationof J.K. Rowling’s first non-“Harry Potter” novel that sometimes threatens todrift away on its own casual tone, but raises enough interesting conversationpoints about the potential for the avarice of government to supersede thepurpose of it that it’s worth a look. Every element that doesn’t quite work in “TheCasual Vacancy” is offset by a legitimate reason to check it out, at leastuntil the muddled ending. This may not be on the level of HBO’s striking “OliveKitteridge”, but few things are. Advertisement Like “Olive”, “The Casual Vacancy” starts off feeling like acharacter piece more than a morality tale (and ends up too much like thelatter). A quant English burg named Pagford is in the middle of a class and agewar. Graffiti has been popping up around town, usually of the sexually explicitnature, and there’s a growing drug problem. Barry Fairbrother (Rory Kinnear,who recently appeared in “The Imitation Game”) is a more forward-thinking,benevolent councilman, the kind who advocates for welfare and even takestroubled people under his wing for advice, including Krystal (Abigal Lawrie).Barry seems to be single-handedly swinging the vote against the moreconservative faction of the city council, led with satirical glee by MichaelGambon andJulia McKenzie. And then poor Barry has an aneurysm. The title “The Casual Vacancy” refers to the council seatthat needs filling on a textual level, but also has deeper meaning. It isreferenced in a dream sequence as referring to a grave—something that’s notempty for long after its creation—and carries over into how much people can beabsent from each other’s lives, whether it be an abusive father or a junkiemother. Few vacancies are actually casual in this world. They’re just perceivedas such. The mad scramble to fill Barry’s seat leads to an upheavalin Pagford. Three nearly worthless candidates—one maniac and two milquetoasts—comeforward for the job, but Rowling is more interested in how death and theprocess of government impacts those run by it. I have not read Rowling’s book,but it is apparently much more tragic thanSarah Phelps’ adaptation. Thescreenwriter has pulled back on some of Rowling’s darker, more deeply cynicaltones, resulting in a mini-series that sometimes lacks the urgency that itmight have had on the page. It’s the kind of character-driven dramedy thatoften works better on the page than it does in film. “Olive Kitteridge”overcame this by giving us such a strong, vital, central character. There’s notreally one of those here as Barry himself, who “returns” when a blog revealseveryone’s secrets under the guide of “The Ghost of Barry Fairbrother”, caststhe longest shadow in Pagford. “The Casual Vacancy” gains most of its value from a strikingdebut performance by Lawrie as Krystal, a character introduced wearing such aninappropriate outfit to her school that it makes the headmaster cry. Krystal’smother is a junkie and she knows she’s basically seen as little more than anobject of desire for her male classmates, but Lawrie doesn’t play her as atragic case. She finds the energy underneath the character in a way thatreminded me ofKatie Jarvis’ amazing performance inAndrea Arnold’s “Fish Tank”. She's really one to watch. Advertisement There’s something thematically engaging about how the deathof a good man makes other people either try to find the goodness within themselvesor reveals the lack thereof. And the influence of good deeds linger past death,and often increase as we remember key moments from those who are no longer withus and place greater importance on them. I became increasingly interested inhow these themes would play out in “The Casual Vacancy,” and then Phelps missesthe target widely in the final scenes, adjusting the ending of the book in away that just doesn’t seem right here. (Although I’m not sure the book’s endingwould have been earned by the tone of this adaptation either.) We can’t avoid death or government, even in small-townEngland. They are inevitabilities and the best parts of “The Casual Vacancy”reveal how they intertwine into everyday life in ways we may not fullyunderstand until we gain the clear vision of hindsight.