Few documentaries match subject and filmmaker as perfectlyas “Iris.” Fashion icon Iris Apfel and documentarianAlbert Maysleswere wellon in life when he set out to make averitéportrait of her: she in her early 90s, he in his late 80s. Both werequintessential New York characters with their own senses of style. Eachpossessed an obvious zest for life as well as a well-developed,self-deprecating sense of humor. Iris reportedly wasn’t interested in being filmed…until shemet Al Maysles. His charm evidently won the day, and brought out her own. Thefilm, in a sense, is not just a record of her career and flamboyantcontributions to the worlds of interior design, fashion and costumes. Moresubtly, it’s also a document of her convergence with Maysles. Their chemistryonly becomes visible in a few scenes where the camera and her attention turn tohim, but it animates the whole film, giving it a suppleness and warmth that areas ingratiating as the personalities on view. Advertisement Iris herself is a filmmaker’s dream. Born to Jewish parentsin Depression-era Queens, she learned early on that she wasn’t pretty, but wastold by a mentor that she had something more important: style. She remarks laterin the film that the girls who were pretty had nothing once their looks faded.But she had worked and learned things that transformed her and would remainwith her even as she reached her tenth decade. Her style has made her into the equivalent of a walkingexclamation point. With her trademark ultra-large round black-framed glasses,angular frame and swept-back white hair, she could be the creation of a greatcartoonist. But herself-creation isnever-ending, because the basic look is constantly expanded and refashioned byher choices in clothing and accessories. For the former, she displays a relentless eclecticism,mixing the creations of great designers with thrift-store discoveries, jeans,religious vestments from around the world and just about anything that catchesher fancy. In terms of accessories, she favors huge and eye-grabbing necklacesand bracelets, sometimes several at once. And her palette is never dour orrestrained, since she believes “color can raise the dead.” This may sound like excess simply for the sake of excess,but Iris also has an ingenuity and innate tastefulness that gives her creationsan intriguing aesthetic logic to match their sensual fascinations. We see herdressed in scores of her own ensembles, and their playfulness—together withher obvious joy in wearing—helps explain why she became a cultural icon.That didn’t happen overnight. Iris was known in the worldsof fashion and design for decades, but it wasn’t until the Metropolitan Museumof Art in New York staged a show of her work in 2005, and it turned into a bigword-of-mouth hit, that she became a public celebrity—or a “geriatricstarlet,” as she puts it.The lead-up to that fame was also the story of a long loveaffair cum collaboration. She married Carl Patel in 1948 and the two foundedOld World Weavers to manufacture vintage fine fabrics that were not being madeelsewhere. Their work ended up in the White House and major collections aroundthe world. Carl is a presence in “Iris,” but one gets the sense that he enjoysliving in his wife’s shadow, since he even lets her speak for him at his 100thbirthday party, which we see in the film. Advertisement Even at 93, Iris is a great talker and she has an obviouspassion for certain subjects. To photographerBruce Weber, a longtime friend,she bemoans current designers who “don’t even know how to sew,” who have nosense of history and allow themselves to be turned into “media freaks.” She’sequally spirited in explaining why she has always believed that politics,science, economics and fashion are all interrelated, with changes in one areainvariably influencing all the others. She rarely slows down, and Maysles’ team follows her througha profusion of meetings, shows, TV appearances, openings and trips between herhomes in Manhattan and Palm Beach. Having practiced hisveritéstyle in such legendary films as “Grey Gardens,” “Salesman”and “Gimme Shelter” Maysles was undoubtedly the ideal cameraman to enter Iris’life and simply observe her non-stop activity, and his visual eloquence is anunderstated but constant asset to “Iris.” Al Maysles, a great fixture in the New York film scene andan influence on several generations of documentary filmmakers, was a keen,understanding observer of human nature and behavior from the 1950s up until hisdeath last month at age 88. “Iris” and another recently completed film, “InTransit,” will stand as testaments to his unique talents and contributions tothe documentary form.