The two families in Robert Altman's “A Wedding” live right therein the closets with their skeletons. They present a cheerful facade to theouter world, of old Lake Forest money on the one hand and new Southern money onthe other. But just beneath the surface there are jealousies and greeds andhates, and the random dirty tricks of fate. Altmanplunges gleefully into this wealth of material; there are forty-eightcharacters in his movie, give or take a few, and by the film's end we know themall. We may not know them well -- at weddings there are always unidentifiedcousins over in the corner -- but we can place them, and chart the lines ofpower and passion that run among them. And some of them are drawn as well asAltman has drawn anyone. Advertisement That'sbecause “A Wedding” is a lot deeper and more ambitious than we might at firstexpect. It begins in comedy, it moves into realms of social observation, itdescends into personal revelations that are sometimes tragic, sometimes comic,and then it ends in a way that turns everything back upon itself. The more youthink about what Altman's done, the more impressive his accomplishment becomes. “AWedding” aims to upset our expectations. It takes our society'smost fertile source of cliches andstereotypes -- a society wedding --andthen chisels away at it with maniacal and sometimes savage satire. Nobodygets away: not the bride and groom, so seemingly "ideal;" not theloving parents on either side; not the relatives, with their little dramas that are no doubt played out on every family occasion; and not even thestaff of wedding coordinators, chefs, photographers, musicians, and other accomplices. Altmanbegins in solemnity and ceremony, with the high Episcopalian wedding. DesiArnaz, Jr., and Amy Stryker, as the wedding couple, are all but lost in thechaos: The bishop fumbles his lines, a camera crew maneuvers awkwardly behindthe palms, and, meanwhile, back at the mansion, the groom's grandmother(Lillian Gish) drops dead of anticipated mortification. Herdeath is concealed when the wedding party returns to the mansion: Concealed from the family and from the single outside guest who turnsup for the magnificently catered affair. Altman introduces us almosteffortlessly to the house jammed with people; his compositions allow charactersto be established in the backgrounds while the plot is being pushed ahead inthe foreground, so it's as if we're wandering around the house like everyoneelse. Thereare any number of subplots. The parents of the groom areNina Van Pallandt,whose drug habit is ministered to by the family doctor, andVittorio Gassman,an Italian who seems to have sinisterassociationsin his past. The bride's parents areCarol Burnett, allsweetness and convention until --gasp! -- she's wooed by one of theguests, andPaul Dooley, vulgar, hard-drinking, with a tad too muchaffection for his youngest daughter(Mia Farrow). Advertisement Farrow,it develops, is pregnant by her sister's new husband,perhaps, or (it develops) by any othermember of his class at militaryschool.Other characters reveal themselves as drunks, unreconstructed Communists,secret weepers, fountains of jealousy, reservoirs of lust, or advocates ofdiverse sexual proclivities. Thisis the sort of material that easily lends itself to farce, and, when it does,Altman cheerfully follows. But he leads in other directions, as well. He movesso slyly from one note to another that whenPat McCormickattempts a clumsyseduction of Carol Burnett, we'removedsimultaneously by comedy and pathos. And there are scenes of extraordinaryemotional complexity, as when a singalong is organized in the basement diningroom, or when Nina Van Pallandt tearfully and defiantly reviews the terms underwhich she's lived her marriage. LikeAltman's other movies with lots of characters (“M*A*S*H,”“McCabeand Mrs. Miller,” theincomparable “Nashville”), “A Wedding” doesn't fit easily into establishedfeature film categories. For some viewers, it won't satisfy; it doesn't set upsituations and then resolve them in standard ways. It's got all thedisorganization and contradictions of life, and then Altman almost mysticallygiveseverything a deeper meaningby the catastrophic surprise he springs on us near the end.