“Any Day” is a well-intentioned disaster, only slightlyredeemed by a committed performance bySean Bean, whose talent proves nowherenear enough to make this manipulative tripe more digestible. It is the kind offilm that opens with “I Shall Be Released” and actually getslesssubtle from there. Worst of all,what at first feels like a mediocre character drama becomes something moreinsidious when writer/directorRustam Branamanuses unspeakable tragedy as anunearned device in a morality play. Advertisement Bean plays Vian, an ex-fighter who just served 12 years injail for the drunken beating death of a man at a party. He’s gone sober inprison, and just wants to get his life back together. It takes some convincing,but his sister Bethley (Kate Walsh) agrees to let him crash on the couch.Between clichéd bits of working out in the backyard, Vi draws closer to hisnephew Jimmy (Nolan Gross), a character who seems to have leapt into the moviefrom “Family Guy” or a “Funny or Die” spoof of such things. The wide-eyed naifloves “Old Man and the Sea”, talks about black holes, gets bullied, and saysthings like, “Why do you think God hadgrandma and grandpa die in a car crash?” To say he’s an unrealisticcharacter clearly inserted into the film as a plot device would be anunderstatement, although it’s the fault of Branaman not the young Gross, whogives his all to this cartoonish creation. Vian gets a job at a pizza joint run by Roland (Tom Arnold),and the two quickly become close friends. He even meets a girl named Jolene(Eva Longoria) at the local grocery store, and, of course, fails to tell her he’san ex-con and claims he’s a high-level chef. Roland meets Vian’s sister, and itlooks like the two of them might form a relationship, but Vian has anold-fashioned, inexplicable, against-his-character Stay Away From My Sisterreaction. Why? The plot says so. And then Branaman drops all pretense ofcharacter drama in the final act, pushing the film’s melodrama and religiousmessage to the forefront. Lest anyone think “Any Day” is problematicbecauseit suggests the importance offaith and belief in a higher power, let me make it clear that this is not thecase. It is because it does so ineptly. The tonal problems start early. Vian is so “aw shucks” niceto everyone around him that Bethley’s protestations make her come off as cruel.He has a polite conversation with Jolene on their first meeting and Bethleyjust berates him. It’s a weird dynamic that, like a lot of “Any Day”, feelslike a screenwriting idea that was never developed. Worst of all, the structureof “Any Day” demands that something must happen to test Vian’s sobriety and non-violence.So we wait for it. And wait. And we get bored because Branaman is defiantlyuninterested in these characters. Everyone we meet is merely set-up for thefinal act. And so characters do and say things that don’t feel organic in theslightest. They are all devices for the “message” of the film, which does adisservice for audiences looking for better faith-based films, ones in whichreligion is correctly portrayed as an essential part of real lives instead offabricated mouthpieces. “Any Day” goes from boring to manipulative, and I’m notsure which is worse. Advertisement Finally, there’s something really weird going on with the film’slanguage and rating. It’s almost as if they decided halfway through that theyneeded to get a PG to hit the faith-based audience that the movie needs tosucceed. And so the entire piece is dubbed like a network TV version of afeature film. Vian twice says “sham” when the character clearly said “shit” andpeople in “Any Day” say “freak” way more often than in normal life. I mentionit because it’s bizarre but also because it’s not hard to believe that this isa project that wasn’t exactly planned out before they started filming. Trustme. You don’t need this sham.