"Hyena"may be a cop film from England but anyone going into it expecting two hours ofquaint bobbies wandering into rooms and asking "What's all thisthen?" will find themselves rudely disabused of those notions within thefirst couple of minutes. A group of policemen perform a violent drug raid ina seedy nightclub (complete with a fire extinguisher slammed into onemiscreant's face) and proceed to snort up those very same narcotics in a barlater that night. No, this is a grim and brutal drama of such an overwhelminglyunpleasant nature throughout that if the     Harvey Keitel    character from "     Bad Lieutenant    " had somehow lived to see it, even he might have been takenaback by much of the extremely lurid and often distasteful material on display.Advertisement Ouranti-hero is Michael Logan (Peter Ferdinando), a deeply corrupt narcoticsdetective who leads a task force of equally dirty cops who are given slack from their superiors because they do getresults from time to time. To further expand his bottom line, Logan has justinvested $100,000 in a Turkish drug smuggling ring that he will guaranteeprotection to in exchange for a cut of the profits. Of course, thatplan goes sideways when a pair of Albanian brothers hack his contact topieces—while he watches from a hiding place in horror—as a way of adding thedrug trade to a criminal portfolio that already includes human trafficking.While investigating the brothers, he meets one of their prisoners, Ariana(Elisa Lasowski), and determines to rescue her from their clutches. Whiletrying to figure out how to deal with the Albanian intruders, Logan'sprofessional life grows ever more complicated. For starters, after he movesfrom investigating narcotics to focus on the human trafficking, he learns thatthe department has placed the investigation in the hands of Knight (StephenGraham), a former partner with whom he had a serious falling-out a few yearsearlier. At the same time, another colleague, the slimy internal affairsinvestigator Taylor (Richard Dormer), is looking into his activities forevidence of corruption that threatens to torpedo his entire career. Ironically,it is when he does one unambiguously noble thing—rescuing Ariana from theclutches of the traffickers and hiding her out with his own long-sufferinggirlfriend (MyAnna Buring)—that hiscarefully crafted world begins to crumble around him in increasingly violentand horrific ways. From adramatic standpoint, writer-directorGerard Johnsonhas not exactly reinventedthe wheel here. The narrative is basically a pastiche of elements cobbledtogether from such inspirations as the aforementioned "BadLieutenant," "Taken," "Taxi Driver" and"Filth," Irvine Walsh's darkly comic study of a thoroughly monstrousU.K. cop that was the basis for an equally lurid screen adaptation with JamesMcAvoy in the lead role. He does not really seem to have much to say otherthan to note the borderline interchangeable nature of cops on the edge and thecriminals they are theoretically charged with pursuing. (Don't stop thepresses!) With the exception of Logan, none of the other characters have beenfleshed out in any meaningful way—both of the major female characters areintroduced in promising fashion only to be essentially abandoned for largechunks of the running time. There are plenty of twists and turns in the plot asLogan gets himself into deeper and deeper trouble but they are entirelypredictable, and while I would not dream of revealing the final shot of thefilm, I suspect that anyone who actually makes it to the bitter end will beenraged by what it does and does not contain. Advertisement Ofcourse, whether or not there will be anyone left to bear witness to the finaleis an unanswered question because "Hyena" is such a nasty and brutishitem that even the hardiest of moviegoers may find themselves repulsed by someof the sights that Johnson has in store. I have already mentioned the scene in whichthe Turkish drug contact is hacked to death—while we may not quite get a clearlook at the crime, we certainly get to gaze upon the aftermath. Later on, afterthe Albanians (and I should point out that the film's depiction of thatparticular ethnic group makes the one seen in "Taken" seem fair,balanced and cuddly by comparison) kill another character, we get to look onin detail as they hack the body up into little pieces in a bathtub with knivesand saws. In the ickiest moment by far, we get to observe as the naked andunconscious Ariana is raped by one of her captors. Now I am not a particularlysqueamish moviegoer by any means, but I am of the belief that if you are goingto indulge in imagery that is that charged and potentially disturbing, you haveto earn the right to use those images, and I do not think that Johnson has donethat here. Instead, it feels like the work of someone who came out of ascreening of the infamously appalling "Only God Forgives" thinking, "Anything he can spew, I can spew better." "Hyena"has been made with an undeniable sense of style, albeit one that cribs many ofits moves from the likes of "A Clockwork Orange" and the cop dramasofMichael Mann. However, the technical skill that Johnson demonstrates does notbegin to make up for the shallow storytelling and needlessly grotesque imagerythat is also on display. This is a thoroughly nasty piece of work from start tofinish and while its sheer unpleasantness may be enough to satisfy someviewers, I suspect most people will come away from it feeling the same way Idid—annoyed, appalled and asking "What's all this then?"