Albert Camus’ short story, “The Guest,” rather resemblesErnest Hemingway’s “The Killers” in that it uses an almost anecdotal storylineto illuminate major—hell, one might even say “existential”—themes. Camus’ workhas only three characters: a police officer, his prisoner, and a schoolteacherthe police officer charges with taking said prisoner to a court and jail acouple of hours away. The teacher’s refusal sets the tale in motion,demonstrating how choice is destiny, but sometimes choice is not an option.Hemingway’s somehow even sparser story focuses on its two title characters, anda man called The Swede, their victim, who offers his murderers no resistance;recounted second hand, the tellers of the tale ponder The Swede’s stoicacceptance of his fate. Advertisement “The Killers” was made into a movie in the late ‘40s, onethat extrapolated The Swede’s backstory in full. A pretty great film noirdirected by Robert Siodmak and starringBurt LancasterandAva Gardner. But analmost entirely different animal in spirit than Hemingway’s great story.Similarly, writer/directorDavid Oelhoffenexpands the parameters of Camus’story, set in Algeria in the early ‘50s, in "Far From Men". Schoolteacher Daru, a quiet,self-possessed man, is played byViggo Mortensen; his charge, Mohamed, by RedaKateb. This expansion of the story sees Daru escorting Mohamed even as heencourages the prisoner to break away. As the two men grow to trust each other,the impossibility of Mohamed’s situation is illuminated. Yes, he is guilty of acrime. The crime, he says, was the result of a him-or-me-and-my-familydecision. Left to hang by themselves, though, his actions will create an endlessand destructive cycle of recrimination. If he escapes, he insists, nothing willbe solved. Only his own sacrifice will make things right. “Getting killed bythe French is the only solution.” Daru has a hard time grasping this. Their journey offers otherchallenges as it progresses. There is rain. The Algerian rebellion againstFrench rule had begun. It hasn’t had much impact on the mountain village whereDaru teaches, but Daru and Mohamed meet some soldiers on their trip, whichprovides an opportunity for some backstory. It also recalls, in a low-key way,an episode from Leone’s “The Good, The Bad, And The Ugly.” There is a very understated brothel,recollecting “The Last Detail.” There is a lot of stark natural beauty,captured very well by cinematographer Guillame Deffontaines. And there is…not alot more, as it happens. In addition to muffing the dénouement of the story onwhich it’s based, “Far From Men” is also the kind of movie in which sobriety and a stalwart sense of seriousness yield more inertia than profundity. Its solemnitynever becomes actively oppressive, but it shuts out not just humor but grace.What it falls back on, rather than the troubling truth illuminated in Camus’story, is the movie-standard gaze of compassion, here proffered by Mortensen,who, it must be admitted, does it well. His French isn’t bad either, althoughhis character gets a backstory that explains its sometimes halting quality(French natives are worse sticklers for accents than American movie critics, asit happens). His work, and Kateb’s, are exemplary. It’s also pleasant to seethe greatAngela Molina, so memorable in Luis Buñuel’s final film “That ObscureObject of Desire,” pop up here in a small role. But the movie remains somethingof a Distinguished Slog. Advertisement