I'll never forget the day I heard "Smells Like TeenSpirit". I had a show on my high school radio station at the time and oncea week my co-host and I would sit in a booth and just randomly listen to whatcame in that day. Most of it was garbage, of course. The early ‘90s were not aswonderful a time for music as VH1 would have you believe. We knew of Nirvanaand so the arrival of Nevermind grabbed our attention quickly. But neither ofus were prepared for the first track. No one in the world was. I remember thelook on my co-host's face. It’s that rare feeling when you know what you’rehearing is not only going to be popular but influential. We put it on the airimmediately. And my obsession with grunge music began. Advertisement I offer this anecdote to make clear that my personalrelationship with Nirvana is a very strong one (even if I have listened toPearl Jamand Alice in Chains way more in the decades since)—I can also stillpicture a friend of mine openly weeping when she heard aboutKurt Cobain’ssuicide, too-few years later. However, even with my card-carrying fan status in mind, I think peopleon the other end of the grunge spectrum of taste would find something specialin “Kurt Cobain: Montage of Heck”. Just as Nirvana took elements of music wehad heard before and made them sound new, filmmakerBrett Morgendeconstructsthe music documentary and makes it feel new again. In fact, this is one of the bestmusic documentaries ever made. “Montage of Heck” is the product of eight years ofproduction by Morgen, the genius behind “The Kid Stays in the Picture”, "Chicago 10", and “CrossfireHurricane,” and the first Nirvana doc authorized by the estate. It’s almost asremarkable for what it’s not as for what it is. It is not hagiography. A VASTmajority of music documentaries are made “by fans for fans.” They merely gildthe pedestal on which music history has already placed someone or argue fortheir underrated importance. There are also documentaries that serve theopposite purpose—to pull a Rock God from the heavens down to Earth. “Montage ofHeck” doesn’t do that either. It is more intimate, more emotional, and morepersonal than either of those easy extremes. It is a true peek into the life ofa private superstar. How did he become a rock icon? How did he turn hischildhood pain into art? How did his emotional demons overtake him? These aremuch more difficult questions for a filmmaker to answer than “Nirvana vs. PearlJam” or other such garbage of the traditional rock doc. Morgen’s approach is as multi-layered as Nirvana’s music.There are interviews (includingCourtney LoveandKrist Novoselic, but, sadly,notDave Grohl) but it’s FAR from a talking head doc as Morgen focuses onarchival footage more than anything else. And it’s not a performance docalthough Nirvana’s music can be heard through almost all two-hours-plus of thepiece. Morgen varies styles—going from home movies to animated recreations ofKurt’s own autobiographical recordings to concert footage to interviews andback again. It all fits tonally with Nirvana. There’s something about listeningto the music that Kurt would write later in life while watching home movies ofa hyperactive young Cobain that almost feels like a music video that the banditself would have produced. At one point, Morgen plays a version of "All Apologies" that almost sounds like it's coming out of a child's music box, almost as if it's a melody that Cobain has in his head from childhood. Advertisement “Montage of Heck” is layered with emotion throughout. Morgenholds a shot after discussing Kurt’s emotional abuse as a child—“The sad part of the whole thing is that Kurtjust really wanted to be with his mom”—and then those words lead into theopening lines of “Something in the Way”; it’s difficult not to cry at thelittle boy lost who turned that into art later in life. Morgen uses stillphotos, drawings Kurt made, animations, and then works with his editor to cutthem together in rhythm with Nirvana’s music in ways that are completelymesmerizing. “Kurt Cobain: Montage of Heck” gets slightly repetitive in thesecond half as Cobain’s issues with fame and relationship with Love dominate the narrative, but even those commonly-discussed chapters of the Cobain legacy have a different, almost tragic energy here. Watching Kurt joke around with Courtney (mocking Axl Rose and Chris Cornell) reveals the friendship dynamic of the two in a different way than we've seen before. And the filmmaking always crackles. Every song choice, everyintimate home movie, every personal moment—they have been carefully chosen from eight years of research formaximum impact. There’s an important critical dictum when one reviews documentaries that we need tobe careful to focus on the form of the filmmaking as much as the content. Filmmaking matters more than subject matter. In this case, both arebrilliant.