As a movie, “Hot Pursuit” can barely be said to exist. It isslackly constructed, unattractively shot, indifferently edited; its actionscenes are very poorly staged; its storyline—a kind of hybrid of “The Gauntlet”and “Thelma and Louise” with scraps from several very lesser movies thrown in(“Due Date,” anyone?) is so rote that it even seems bored with itself. But as adelivery system for a newly minted and reasonably engaging if not alwayslaugh-out-loud comedy team—Reese Witherspoonand Sophie Vergara—“Hot Pursuit”works, arguably, as well as it has to for much of its brisk hour-and-a-half. Advertisement In other words, if you key in to the often manic comicchemistry that Witherspoon and Vergara spark off, you won’t mind, for instance,the I’m-almost-certain-inadvertently-funny ineptitude of thetake-down-the-bad-guy (is that a spoiler? Is that possible for a movie likethis?) won’t bother you all that much. And you’ll also deserve congratulation,I suppose for being a very easygoing movie viewer. In any event: hereWitherspoon plays Cooper (the fact that nobody ever refers to her by her firstname is kind of a “character point”) a perky and ultra by-the-bookgoody-two-shoes cop who gets what she thinks is a dream assignment when she’stold to escort a witness in a drug-lord case to her Grand Jury appointment.That witness is Vergara’s Daniella, who’s very Vergara: brash, blinged-out,super confident and a potential fount of English-language malapropism, althoughthe film doesn’t, for better or worse, exploit that last bit of comic potentialmuch. Rather, after a scene in which both another witness and a bonafideFederal Marshall are killed—you’ll notice that by opening with a double murder,you get the comic tone set and fixed right there—Witherspoon and Vergara’scharacters spend a lot of energy and time insulting each others personalappearances, pausing only to outwit the bad guys who wanna kill them via anoutpouring of guilt power. The funniest bit is the most biologically graphic,in which the duo convince their potential assassins to grant them a bathroombreak by describing human female menstruation in detail to the grossed-out EvilBros. Powerful Sisterhood, however, consistently eludes Cooper and Daniella, asthe script’s too-busy and eventually utterly beside-the-point plot twistscompel Vergara’s redeemable Bad Girl to keep stabbing Cooper in the back. Okay,maybe that’s too strong. More like she kicks her in the shins and runs.Literally. And over and over again. The energy, commitment, and good will displayed by the leadperformers is pretty much the movie’s only redeeming quality. I’ve seen onecritic compare their interaction to that ofBob Hopeand Bing Crosby,old-school comic performers who starred in a series of “Road” movies back inthe day. Those films were not terribly substantial, but at least their makershad some sense of story carpentry, even when the story served no purpose exceptto let the top dogs riff. They would not, for instance, kick off the action oftheir scenarios with a scene of a cop getting murdered. They’d find another wayto get their characters into a fix. I’m not saying this because I found the setup of “Hot Pursuit” to be actually offensive. Just lazy. Really, really lazy. Advertisement