Suzanne lives with a photographer who isn’t much of a man. Theyaren’t married, but he’s fathered two of her children. Now she’s pregnantagain, and there isn’t enough money for food as it is. Suzanne is 22. She makesa friend of Pauline, the 17-year-old around the corner who everyone calls“Pomme,” for “apple,” maybe because of her round cheeks. Pommehelps Suzanne find the money for an abortion, and stands by her as a friendduring the ordeal. The two women draw closer as the photographer wraps hisinsecurity around himself. One day, returning to the studio, they find he hashanged himself. So now Suzanne is left with two children, no lover, and anuncertain future. Advertisement SobeginsAgnes Varda’s “One Sings, the Other Doesn’t,” which, despite its grimbeginnings, goes on to become one of the most appealing films by a French directorwhose best work has always found a balance between the heart and the mind.Varda works close to the human grain; she insists whenever possible on makingdocumentaries between each of her feature films, so she can stay in touch withreality and not fall for the stylistic excesses of the big fiction films. Thatrestraint isn’t always evident in “One Sings, the Other Doesn’t,” whichcontains about three or four songs too many for its subject matter to support.But I’m getting ahead of the story, which is simplicity itself: After herlover’s death, Suzanne goes with her children to live on her parents’ farm inthe country, and Pomme… well, Pomme has adventures. Shebecomes a pop singer. She becomes a feminist, and forms a singing groupdedicated to woman’s liberation. She falls in love with an Iranian student, whoseems one sort of person in France and quite another after she marries him andmoves back to Iran to have his child. At home, he’s an unreconstructedchauvinist, insisting that his wife fill traditional roles. She can’t see it,and they finally part, more or less friends, and she returns to France. Inthe meantime, the two women have somehow kept in touch through the years.Sometimes they meet; more often it’ll be by letter or postcard, Pomme checkingin from some exotic spot and Suzanne (who eventually marries a doctor) replyingwith news of the reassuring rhythms of life on the farm. Varda’s title is aperfect one (and even more melodic in French: “L’une chante, l’autre pas”).Here we have them, she says: Two women, friends, and one sings and the otherdoesn’t, but they’ll remain friends and sisters for all of their lives. Themovie’s final passages are among the best. Pomme comes with her child andfriends to spend some time on the farm, and so several generations are broughttogether as the two friends approach the middles of their lives. There’s apicnic, and kids playing, and wine, and singing (but of too many songs), andwhat Varda’s doing, in a sneaky way, is making her case for feminism in a lyricvoice instead of a preachy one.