“Intrepido: A Lonely Hero” is a strange little film, and it’slikely to be considered so both by viewers who know and those who don’t knowthe work ofGianni Amelio. For those unfamiliar with the Italian auteur’s career,it might seem odd that an American distributor would import this lumpy,unaffecting tale of a Milanese Everyman who substitutes for other workers in anendless series of menial jobs. For viewers aware of Amelio masterworks such as“Open Doors,” “Stolen Children” and “Lamerica,” on the other hand, thepuzzlement will lie in wondering how the creator of those magisterial filmswould end up turning out this curious trifle. Advertisement In the film’s opening minutes, we see Antonio Pane (AntonioAlbanese) wearing a hard hat while working on a Milan high-rise constructionsite, where there’s talk of immigrant labor and the ineffectualness of unions.That’s the morning. By afternoon, Antonio is wearing a lion costume and tryingto entertain spoiled kids at a shopping mall. Come evening, he’s pastingposters on billboards and being threatened by thuggish competitors. Multiple jobs in one day? What gives? We soon learn: Antonio is a “fill-in.” He fills in forworkers who for any reason can’t perform their jobs. As we see him move fromone task to another, in what’s obviously a thankless routine, it graduallyemerges that he has only two significant relationships, and there’s a degree oftrouble on both fronts. The person closest to him is his son Ivo (Gabriele Rendina),a jazz saxophonist. Ivo regularly visitsAntonio and takes care of him in ways that make it almost seem that the boyis the parental figure and dad the needy dependent. But Ivo’s life isn’totherwise placid. Though talented, he has a case of stage nerves and areputation for unreliability that threaten his promising career. Antonio’s other intimate, Lucia (Livia Rossi), is a youngwoman he meets while they’re both taking a standardized test (for what we’renever told). She looks completely at sea, so he passes her the answers, and abrittle friendship is born. But she’s hardly a cheerful or romantic companion.Beclouded by various worries, she seems on a downward psychological spiral thatAntonio will be hard-pressed to reverse. As this loose-knit tale unfolds, its most curious aspect ishow disconnected its episodes feel, a quality that grows even more pronouncedin its second half. It’s as if Amelio had a hatful of note cards with ideas forscenes, threw them in the air, and stuck them in the final script in whateverorder they hit the floor. Some seem entirely arbitrary. One example: Antonio is assigned by a shady gym boss to lookafter a boy who appears about 10 years old. He takes the kid to a park andtries to amuse him with jokes and chat, but the boy won’t talk. Eventually aman appears and the boy goes off with him. What’s happened here? Has Antonioplayed an unsuspecting role as a pedophile’s procurer? The scene vaguely evokesthe concern for child abuse in other Amelio films, but here it’s neverexplained; it connects with nothing around it. Advertisement In the films that earned him an international reputation,Amelio seemed like an inheritor of the Italian neorealists, a powerful andconfident stylist who nonetheless turned away from the aestheticism ofdirectors such as Antonioni and Bertolucci to focus on social problems, oftenfrom an angle that might be called conservative-humanist. But “Intrepido”hardly seems like an attempt to seriously probe contemporary labor discontents;it’s too whimsical and aleatory. So what was Amelio’s plug-in point for thisdesultory fable? It’s been reported that he wanted to work with Albanese, apopular comic actor, and “Intrepido” does make a certain amount of sense as away for the director to showcase a favorite performer. The story’s randomtrajectory plays like a series of skits for the actor, more than aconventionally focused story. Also, there’s an obvious attempt to evoke theChaplin of “Modern Times” (one sequence even ends with an iris-in). Yet itcan’t be said that any of this adds up to slapstick merriment, much less cleversatire. Amelio’s outlook is naturally grave; comedy is not in his genes; and ifhe’d wanted to work with an actor who could provide actual hilarity, he’d havebeen better off with an antic clown likeRoberto Benigni. What comes across as genuine in the film, and might alsohelp explain its origins, is its air of melancholy and loneliness. The film’sMilan is not just a vision of wintry industrial anomie; it also feels like aplace where people inhabit the same space but never touch each other. A spacethat’s more the inside of one man’s head than an actual city, in other words. “Intrepido,” the title Amelio gave the film, refers to apublication from his childhood. “A Lonely Hero,” supplied by the film’simporters, is a rather clunky addition, but it does evoke the interior feel ofthe film. “Colpire al Cuore,” Amelio’s brilliant debut film of 1982, provided ascathing critique of bourgeois leftist radicals, yet it was also a depiction ofa very solitary and alienated young man, and the suggestion of self-portraiturewas inescapable. “Intrepido” may be a similar look in the mirror, yet here theface the artist sees is old, not young, and his world not so susceptible tocathartic change. Advertisement