Daniel Duran’s “Bravetown,” a fish-out-of-water tale about atroubled New York City boy exiled to corn-fed North Dakota, is a film forteenagers, especially those with a taste for teen-movie clichés put across withplush production values and a complement of high-energy dance numbers. Olderaudiences are likely to find the film less amusing than risible. It begins, rather deceptively, with a De Palma-worthymoving-camera shot that follows a hip-looking black dude as he navigates hisway through several levels of a packed, pulsing New York nightclub, pausingoccasionally to exchange high fives with other dudes. The guy eventually reachesthe club’s deejay, a blond kid he calls “Joshy boy,” who accepts pill afterpill from him until, eventually, he collapses and ends up in the hospital. Advertisement Though but a teen, Josh (Lucas Till) is reputedly one of thecountry’s hottest deejays. Apparently the job doesn’t pay enough to allow himto live apart from his stressed-out mom (Maria Bello), whom he curses out fornot leaving enough milk in the fridge, among other sins. Mom is relieved of herparental responsibilities, though, when Josh’s overdose lands him in court andthe judge sentences him to go live with his long-absent dad in the Midwest.(That New York juvenile-court judges have such creative sentencing powers isbut one thing you can learn from “Bravetown.”) The small North Dakota town Josh arrives in is picturesqueenough for a corn flakes commercial, or indeed an Army recruiting ad. Josh ispicked up and given lodgings by his dad, but the two seem to exchange fewerthan a dozen words after their initial meeting, the father-son relationshipbeing one of the few instances where Oscar Torres’ script misses a chance foroverwrought emotional conflict. Though the New York scenes gave no hint of it, Josh is ahigh school student, and when he starts classes in his new town, the other kidsare understandably curious about the guy they’ve heard is a famous deejay fromback east. Meanwhile, Josh’s sentence means that he must pay regular visits toa therapist, Alex (Josh Duhamel). For a while these sessions entail little morethan the two eating pizza and watching soccer on TV, though Josh significantlylearns that Alex was a soldier who lost his best friend in combat. As it happens, everyone is this town seems to have lostsomeone to military service. This is explained to Josh in an exceedingly weirdnighttime scene where his classmate Mary (Kherington Payne) invites him to joinher in lighting lamps on a memorial tree that’s adorned with countless medalswon by the town’s fighting folk. Though the element of universal military lossthreatens to introduce a “Twilight Zone”-like uncanny-ness to the film, itsmain purpose is to convey a simple idea: Everybody hurts. Advertisement That’s certainly the case in Mary’s family, which lost itseldest son to America’s war in Iraq. The resulting devastation has affectedeveryone, but especially Mary’s mom (Laura Dern), whose condition can only bedescribed as severely addled. She pops pills, sleeps too late to fix her kids’breakfast, and sometimes doesn’t seem to realize that her soldier boy is dead –a state of grief-induced dementia that occasions one of Dern’s most expertlynutty performances. The effect of all this is to makeangstthe center of practically every personality and relationship.It’s a very adolescent (or therapy-centric) worldview: Everyone’s in pain,damaged, wounded. Everyone needs healing, love…or, just maybe, catharsis. That’s where Josh’s musical abilities come in. His highschool has a dance team – including Mary, of course – and they’ve been in along funk, losing every competition. Then Josh accepts their invitation tosupply some new beats and they’re instantly transformed. (Two more things Ilearned from the film: High schools have competitive dance teams, and they comeup with their elaborate routines thanks only to the inspiration of a greatdeejay; no choreographer is involved.) This is the kind of aerobic-intensive “dance” that used tobe called calisthenics, but never mind that. Josh’s beats save the day. You’llhave to see the movie to see how that, plus the boy’s fixation on OliverStone’s “Platoon,” not only gets the kids to the state championships but alsoheals the town from its long obsession with dead soldiers. Really. As even a brief synopsis might suggest, there’s a sillinessto “Bravetown” deep enough to make “Footloose” look like grand opera bycomparison. But it’s all put across with equal measures of un-winking sincerityand technical polish. First-time feature director Duran made his name withmusic videos, and while his skills in that department are evident here, he alsogets nice work from cast members including comely lead Lucas Till, who’s mainlyasked to look sullen and too-cool-for-school but does that assuredly. Incidentally, Duran and cinematographer Angel Barroeta arenative Venezuelans, while screenwriter Torres was born in El Salvador. That mayhelp explain why their America seems to owe less to lived reality than to themythic visions of movies, music videos and commercials. And though Torres’story imagines a world without choreographers, the film’s choreographer wasBrian Friedman. Advertisement