Dependingon how one looks at it, the oceanfront can be looked at as either the startingpoint of a new and promising life or the final move of someone with nowhereelse to go. The two main characters in "The Ocean of Helena Lee" livetogether in the Venice Beach area of California, and each represents one ofthose two particular perspectives. Watching them navigate through theirlives makes for one of the more unique, evocative and deeply felt coming-of-agefilms to come along in quite some time. Advertisement Helena(Moriah Blonna) is a 12-year-old girl whose imminent passage into adolescenceis made all the more challenging by the loss of her mother a couple of years earlier.She yearns to be a writer but more than that, she is consumed by the notion ofstorytelling as a whole—what they mean and what they signify. Chiefly, she isinterested in getting to the bottom of her own personal narrative—if she canfigure out who she is and what she wants, maybe she can understand why hermother was taken from her and discover her true path in life. At the same timethat she is grappling with these admittedly heavy sentiments, she is alsoacting like a normal girl of her age by goofing off at the beach and hangingout with her friends. Micky(Tom Dunne) does a lot of that as well but since he is Helena's father, theeffect is not so much carefree as kind of sad. He is kind of a screw-up whosedays are a blur of booze, women and bumming around on the beach occasionallypunctuated by a job as a drummer in a local strip club. In contrast to hisdaughter's startling maturity, he is still caught in the grips of an arrestedadolescence that only seems to have intensified in the wake of his wife'sdeath. That said, he is not a bad father in many key areas—he clearly lovesHelena, treats her like an adult and wants to allow her the freedom to find herown way in life. However, when it comes to more mundane things like providing astable environment for her to grow up in, he has neither any clue as to how togo about it nor any evident interest in doing so and as the seasons pass fromthe glory of summer to the chill of winter and beyond, this eventually inspiresa rift between them with results that are both devastating and liberating inequal measure. "TheOcean of Helena Lee" opens with the words "Based on a truestory" and indeed, it is a semi-autobiographical take on the life offilmmakerJim Akin. However, even if that notice was not included, most viewerswould instantly latch on to the fact that they were watching something of adeeply personal nature, and not just because Akin wore virtually all of the keyhats of its production—besides writing and directing, he also did the cinematography,sound and editing and co-produced and collaborated on the score with his wife,singerMaria McKee(who herself appears in the film occasionally as theethereal vision of Helena's mother). This is a film that is created not fromthe expected lockstep machinations of the usual coming-of-age template but fromthe rambling nature of real life and itis that streak of authenticity that helps to give it an undeniable power. Hisdepiction of the Venice Beach area of the early Seventies, a place of"beauty contests and freak shows," is incredibly evocative withoutever overdoing the period dressing and many of the conversations, especiallythe powerful climactic confrontation between Helena and her father, are equallyrealistic in the way that they sound like real words coming from real peopleand not simply pieces of dialogue written for someone to say. Advertisement The film is always visually arresting and takes on the mantle of a tone poemthat oftentimes suggests the work of such filmmakers asTerrence MalickandDavid Gordon Green(the Malick connection is especially strong thanks to anarration by Helena reminiscent of the one delivered byLinda Manzin"Days of Heaven"). Simply put, there is not a single boring shot, and yet, at the same time, Akin never allows the style tooverwhelm the story he is telling. The score that he and McKee have puttogether is equally impressive in the way that it evokes the changing moods ofHelena's world and the songs that McKee performs throughout serve as a reminderthat she is in possession of one of the purest voices in the music world today.This is a remarkably confident piece of filmmaking that is all the moreimpressive due to the fact that it is only Akin's second feature. Intransforming his story into a film, Akin made the decision to change the genderof the character based on him to female. That gamble clearly paid off as theother great triumph of "The Ocean of Helena Lee" is the centralperformance from newcomer Moriah Blonna as Helena. She is an absolute naturalin front of the camera—especially important since she is in virtually everyscene—and deft enough of a performer to take lines that might have come acrossas dodgy in the hands of others ("I like to learn. I don't like to betaught") and make them seem utterly authentic. As for the otherperformances, Tom Dunne does an excellent job of finding a certain sympatheticnote for playing Micky without ever letting him off the hook for hisirresponsibility ("Just a small lost boy unwilling to be big") andMcKee is an undeniably striking presence in her brief appearances as Helena'smother. Inkeeping with its low-key and essentially homemade nature, "The Ocean ofHelena Lee" is utilizing an unusual distribution pattern. There will be anumber of screenings over the next week in Hollywood featuring liveperformances from Maria McKee and it will also be available to buy on DVD andBlu-Ray and download via iTunes and Amazon. Whatever the method you employ, itis worth it because this is a film well worth seeking out—a graceful andintelligent hymn to youth, perseverance and self-reliance featuring hypnoticimagery, captivating performances, a soundtrack that you will want to downloadas soon as possible and a final shot that will haunt you for a long time afterit ends. Advertisement