Films about writers are tough enough. Films about writerswho think they’re the smartest person in the room and too cool for the love storyin which they’re essentially starring are even more ill-advised. Such is one ofthe many problems with “Playing It Cool”, a movie that suffers greatly from itstendency to constantly remind you that “This is a Film About WRITERS.” Our narratornot only comments on the action of the piece incessantly, he’s credited as “Me”.And the narcissism doesn’t stop there. This “Me” constantly reminds us abouthow differently writers see the world, how idiosyncratic they are, how smartthey are, how much better they are than you, etc. It’s like being stuck in the head of a Creative Writing student who looks down on everyone else's major.And the film ultimately falls victim to the false assumption that highlighting clichésmakes them easier to bear, when, in fact, I find the opposite true. Embraceyour manipulation, don’t pretend you’re above it before you use it. Only thereally strong cast, including great chemistry between the leads, keeps “PlayingIt Cool” from totally derailing. AdvertisementChris Evansplays the narrator, a lovelorn, one-night standtype whose mom left him years ago with a note on the Cap’n Crunch and whoseheart isn’t just on his sleeve, it’s taken form and follows him around,chain-smoking. Then, of course, he gets smacked in the face with love when hemeets “Her,” played by the lovelyMichelle Monaghan. It wouldn’t be a movie ifour object of desire was single, and so we get an uptight beau named “Stuffy”(Ioan Gruffudd) to eventually overcome. More problematic for our hero is thefact that he doesn’t really believe in the love in which he’s falling. He talksthrough his concerns with writer friends Scott (Topher Grace), Lyle (MartinStarr), Mallory (Aubrey Plaza), and Samson (Luke Wilson)—a group of charactersso poorly realized that I started to wonder if they weren’t all figments of ourwriter’s imagination. “Playing It Cool” is so self-consciously trying to convinceviewers that it’s the smartest romantic comedy in years that it never bothersto create characters. I’m sure writer/directorJustin Reardonthought he wasbeing clever in his construction (unnamed characters who constantly comment ontheir own clichéd situations) but the result is an annoyingly pretentious pieceof work. There’s more “commentary” about writing and love in “Playing It Cool”than actual romance or friendship. It defiantly fails the “show, don’t tell”argument. It is all telling. Which adds to how remarkable it is that Evans and Monaghankeep the film from becoming totally unbearable. He’s likely to always be mostfamous for Captain America, but I’ve always found him a likable actor—believable,charismatic, smart. Evans is up for anything. It’s Reardon’s fault that hedoesn’t give him anything consistent to do. Evans’ writer is a total narcissist—heliterally puts himself in the leading roles of every story his writer friends tellhim. Lovely, right? And yet Evans is too likable to make this guy the totalasshole he probably would be in real life. Similarly, while we never quiteunderstand what Monaghan would see in him besides the physical, she’s a typicaldelight. She’s another actress I’d love to see get better work. Maybe theyshould both stay away from films about writers. Advertisement