I really missBertrand Bliersometimes. “Who?” you mightask. French writer/director Blier’s movies aren’t much in fashion nowadays, butback in the ‘70s and ‘80s he was quite the American art house scandal. Hismovies, including “Going Places,” “Get Out Your Handkerchiefs,” and “TooBeautiful For You,” were no-holds-barred sex comedies exposing both male brutalityand male insecurity, which of course often go hand in hand. And they weren’tafraid of exploring the extreme and secretive edges of male sexuality. Take,for instance, 1974’s “Going Places,” in whichGerard Depardieu(whose movieswith Blier helped make him a star) andPatrick Dewaereplay a couple ofdirtbags roaming the French countryside trying to get into the pants of prettymuch every woman they encounter (including a nun). There’s a scene in the moviein which the pair find themselves bereft of the company of women, andDepardieu’s character just rapes Dewaere’s. Aiiieee, right? Only in Blier’shands, the whole thing is kind of revelatory. Advertisement I thought of Blier while watching “The D Train,” in whichmale sexuality, brutality, and insecurity are all subjected to scrutiny. Not with dry humor and merciless precision but the worst indie-film conventionsconcerning nerdiness, and butter tubs of sentimentality. The movie goes forgrin-and-cringe-inducing, and instead achieves “excruciating.”Jack BlackplaysDan Landsman (the title, incidentally, alludes to the character’s compulsive,annoying attempts at assigning himself an appropriately bro-ish nickname) asuburbanite who’s such an annoying and tetchy component of his high school’sreunion committee that one understands when his fellow sad-sacks neglect toinvite him out for beers after a typically dispiriting session of trying todrum up alumni enthusiasm. So it’s a little surprising, really, when afterthese rejections he returns home to his attractive, attentive wife and twokids, one an infant, the other a slightly withdrawn teen boy. Already thecharacter components are failing to line up convincingly, which always suggestsa new agenda is brewing. This comes up when Dan sees a former classmate, OliverLawless, in a cheesy sunscreen commercial on TV. Dan is immediatelyobsessed—someone of his high school tribe has “made it”—and concocts a veryhare-brained scheme to attract the gone-Hollywood Lawless to the reunion. Saidscheme involves concocting a fraudulent business deal in L.A., and the plotthickens when Dan’s genial but clueless boss (Jeffrey Tambor) insists on goingon the trip. In L.A., the meetup with Oliver goes FAR better thanexpected. Dan and the indolent, unshaven hunk, played byJames Marsden, catchup over not just drinks but cocaine and muscle relaxants. “You’re gay?” Danasks, after experiencing some conversational confusion over Oliver’spreferences. “I’m not into labels,” Oliver drawls. Hollywood, man. Right? And then, one of their debauches ends with the two havingsex, which Oliver, the morning after, takes in not-into-labels stride, whileDan kind of freaks out. (Media outletsare referring to the not-particularly explicit seduction as  “THAT Jack Black, James Marsden scene,” oohla la.) At first he freaks out in that conventionally, clichéd “good way” thatwe’ve been seeing since “Fried Green Tomatoes” and probably before: he’s a newman, bold with his fellows and a tornado in the bedroom. But his cockiness is soonsubsumed; after “Lawless” shows up in town to attend the reunion that Dan’ssold him on—AND to crash at Dan’s house, AND to offer Dan’s awkward teenage soncrassly comic sex advice, bet you didn’t see THAT coming—Dan’s feelings becomesneakier, and he starts acting like a spurned lover, which tends to confusemany around him. And of course it all comes to a head at the aforementionedreunion. Advertisement That climax then leads to a summation of Lessons Learned,which are the usual “don’t be afraid to be yourself even if you’re not sure whothat self is” bromides, and also some stuff about how getting on a TVcommercial isn’t all it’s cracked up to be. The lead actors all do work thatcritics like to call “game,” but they don’t generate anything: not empathy, notsympathy, not a chuckle. It’s clear that writer-directorsJarrad PaulandAndrew Mogelare out to create a comic parable of acceptance and stuff, and thenear-ossified sub-genre or category referred to as “indie” allows them thelatitude to go places that a big Hollywood production might not allow. Troubleis, they don’t go to those places credibly. At all. Mogel and Paul are thewriters of record for the middlingJim Carreycomedy “Yes Man” and frankly I’dsay they met their water level there. As for Bertrand Blier, I’m told hiscomedies grew sourer and more intolerant over the years, but it’s hard for meto say, as none of them have gotten a U.S. release in this century.