“What’s the highest grossing Swedish movie of all time?” youask. Wait, no, you didn’t ask? Well, too bad. The highest grossing Swedishmovie of all time, apparently, is this one, new to U.S. release, and watchingit, one can see why. The Swedish film industry is one of the oldest and mostadvanced in the world—during the teens and ‘20s of the 20thcentury,its output was absolutely on a par with what the greatest innovators of theU.S. and France were up to—but it is often associated with a kind of dourness,on account (somewhat unfairly) ofIngmar Bergmanand his death-occupied allegories.Even Sweden’s popular culture is pretty dark—it’s from this country that thedark thrillers of Steig Larsson hail. This movie, as it happens, is a comedy,but it’s a frequently grisly one, and one that makes rollicking fun of a lot ofdark Swedish preoccupations. Advertisement Its plot is very neatly summed up by its title, which wasalso the title of the bestselling novel upon which it is based. The moviebegins with a dynamite fuse crackling through the opening credits; then, itsaged hero, Allan, puts his cat Molotov outside for a bit, and the poor kitty iskilled by a coyote. Allan takes his revenge by blowing up the offendingcreature. This action lands him in a nursing home, out of whose window heclimbs on his 100thbirthday. The nursing home staff never finds him(that’s not really a spoiler), but we follow him on his subsequent adventure,which is intercut with his narration and flashbacks of his picaresque 100-yearlife. “All I ever want to do is eat, sleep, and blow things up,”Allan avers at one point. A cruelty inflicted on him in childhood precludes (orat least inhibits) romance, leaving him with those three easy-to-fulfilldesires. The blowing-things-up part is part of what gave this story particularappeal to Swedes. Sweden was, of course, the home of Alfred Nobel, the inventorof dynamite whose subsequent guilt about it led to the Nobel Peace Prize.Sweden’s national character, apparently, is at least partially defined by theparadox that this peace-loving, ostensibly “progressive” country is mostnotable in 20th-century world-historical terms for advancing thescience of explosives. And so we see Allan cavorting through the century,blissfully free of ideology or perspective—a more well-spoken, self-aware Forrest Gump, if you please—encountering the likes of Franco and Oppenheimerand Stalin, and just happy to make things go boom the whole while. In thepresent day, he stumbles upon a suitcase full of cash, makes an accomplice of arascally railway station agent, helps rescue a circus elephant, and more, allwhile thoroughly flummoxing a motorcycle gang who want the cash and theextremely understaffed and indolent police force that’s pursuing him. That lastelement is a bit of a subtle counter to the depiction of Swedish cops in theaforementioned Steig Larsson books. Still you don’t have to be Swedish to enjoy the film. Thepicaresque mode is one that’s well-liked throughout Western culture, and thismovie, directed byFelix Herngrenand starring popular Swedish comedian RobertGustaffson, executes it reasonably well, with touches not just reminiscent of“Gump” but of “The Shawshank Redemption” and other popular tall tales of ourtime. It is ever so slightly more cynical and in-your-face with mordant humorthan a mainstream American film would have been; the insouciant treatment ofAllan’s first experiment with dynamite is moreAdam Rifkinthan RobertZemeckis. Such slight tonal eccentricities didn’t quite do the trick for thisreviewer, however. Advertisement