Theinfrequency of the Western genre tempts viewers to give new ones every possiblebenefit of the doubt on the theory that even a half-good example is better thannone at all. So, even while"Echoesof War" wasn't really working for me for quite a while, I found myselfstill hoping against hope that it would turn itself around and make up for theawkwardness in the early going. Eventually, I finally had to concede to myselfthat, despite my best efforts, I could not see it as anything more than a giantbore that presents viewers with the most familiar plot devices imaginable butfails to present them in a way that makes them worth sitting through onceagain.Advertisement Set in arural area of Texas just after the end of the Civil War, the story opens asformer Confederate soldier Wade (James Badge Dale) returns to the homebelonging to his late sister's husband, Seamus (Ethan Embry), and their familyto recover from the horrors that he has seen. The Rileys survive by trappinganimals on their property and eating the meat while selling the pelts, a meagerexistence that has become all the more so since their next-door neighbors, theMcCluskeys—a once-rich and powerfulfamily of cattle ranchers that has fallen on hard times since the army seizedtheir livestock for the war effort—have now taken to raiding thetraps and stealing the animals they have caught. Although Seamus and the othersare content to simply let it slide, Wade is not so easygoing and pays a visitto the patriarch of the McCluskey clan, Randolph (William Forsythe, to ask himpolitely to knock it off, and you can no doubt surmise how well that pans out. Ofcourse, you realize that this means war, and Wade fires off the first shot whenhe catches the older McCluskey son, dimwit Dillard (Ryan O'Nan), stealing fromone of his family's traps. He lures Dillard into inadvertently sticking his footinto another trap and leaves him. Things quickly escalate between the two sides,and whatever suspense there is comes from trying to guess which of the more orless innocent members of the respective families are going to get caught in theviolent crossfire. On the Riley side, there is Wade's lovely and sweet nieceAbigail (Maika Monroe) and nephew Samuel (Owen Teague), a young boy whoidolizes his soldier uncle over the dad who sat out the war. For theMcCluskeys, there is Doris (Beth Broderick), the matriarch who went madfollowing the death of another child, and Marcus (Rhys Wakefield), a moreeven-tempered son who makes daily excursions to clandestinely canoodle withAbigail. Co-writersJohn ChrissandKane Seneshave provided a screenplay that consists of oneoverly familiar scenario after another, dialogue that strains for poetry atevery turn and misses every time (If one more person made explicit mention ofWade's search for "peace," I was prepared to begin my own violentgrudge war) and characters who always feel like plot devices instead of actualpeople. Senes serves double duty as director, and, as uninvolving as thescreenplay he gave himself is, he does it no favor with a pace so sluggish thatthe film feels maybe three times longer than it actually is. Advertisement There aresome good actors here but since they have been given neither compellingcharacters to play nor plausible dialogue, they more or less look exactly likewhat they are—a bunch of actors stuck inuncomfortable outfits uttering largely unspeakable dialogue. James Badge Dale,for example, is normally a good actor but his character is so one-dimensionaland uninteresting that he is unable to get anything going with it, not evenwhen the role takes on a darker tone in the later scenes. Likewise, WilliamForsythe is one of those B-movie presences who can usually liven up even themost substandard of material but he is also stymied by a character built of somany cliches that he was probably off-book halfway through the first tableread. And anyone going to this film just to see Maika Monroe in her first majorrelease since her big breakthrough earlier this year as the tormented girl atthe center of the horror knockout "It Follows" will be especiallydisappointed to see her marking time in a nothing part that fails to provideher with any opportunity to show off the acting skills that we know shepossesses in abundance.