What went wrong? How did so many talented people devotetheir time and energy to a film that came out this generic, dull, and flat?DirectorAmy Bergcertainly knows a thing or two about warped perversions ofhuman need as proven by her work directing documentaries like “Deliver Us FromEvil” and “West of Memphis.” And screenwriterNicole Holofcenerhas been one ofthe best in her field with gems like “Lovely and Amazing” and “Enough Said.”Perhaps neither was quite suited for this material as Berg’s skill withnon-fiction doesn’t translate to her first narrative film and Holofcener’sgifts with character are smothered by the twisting and turning requirements ofairport bookstore thriller fiction. Whatever the case, “Every Secret Thing” isa misfire on multiple levels, only slightly redeemed by yet another goodperformance from a Fanning and some strong supporting work on the fringe of thiscautionary tale. Advertisement Seven years ago, Ronnie Fuller (Dakota Fanning) and AliceManning (Danielle Macdonald) were convicted of kidnapping and killing a babygirl who was grabbed from her porch in broad daylight. Both pointed the fingerat the other one, and both were sent to juvenile detention for their formativeyears. Two weeks after Fuller and Manning are released back into the realworld, a 3-year-old girl is snatched from a furniture store in the middle ofthe day, as her parents (including Common) shop for a new mattress. Did Ronnieor Alice repeat the crime from their youth? Detective Nancy Porter (Elizabeth Banks), who, of course, isthe same cop who found the body in the first case, is called in on the secondone, partnered with a gruffer fellow detective (Nate Parker), and on the urgenthunt for answers. Sort of. One of the many dramatic ingredients lacking from “EverySecret Thing” is a sense of urgency. Say what you will about the histrionics ofsomething like “Prisoners,” I far prefer that to the lackadaisical approachhere, in which Banks is forced to occasionally spit out lines about how they’relooking for a toddler who may already be dead but the filmmaking never matchesthe intensity of the situation. The reason “Every Secret Thing” lacks intensity is becauseHolofcener and Berg forgot to craft real characters. Every single person inthis film is a cog in the thriller machine, and most of their dialogue merely pushesthe mystery forward. There’s something buried deep within this narrative aboutbad parenting—Ronnie’s are essentially absent while Alice’s mom, played byDiane Lane, is simply a horrible person, berating her overweight daughter inscenes of domestic awfulness that feel overly scripted, under-directed, and justfalse. Worst of all, Macdonald is forced to carry much of the dramatic weightof the second half of “Every Secret Thing” and she proves incapable of doingso. Only Fanning (and Common in a few scenes) seem well-cast and engaged by thescript. Everyone else varies from mediocre to awful. Advertisement How do bad movies happen? It’s clear that “Every SecretThing” was made with good intentions. It certainly doesn’t feel like it felloff a Hollywood movie assembly line. Again, it may have been a project thatsimply didn’t play to the skills of its director or screenwriter, and no onewas willing to admit that given the success they had found in the past.Everyone will come out of this unscathed. Berg already has a new doc makingwaves and Holofcener isn’t going anywhere. Banks, Lane, Fanning—they’ll be ingreat films again. In fact, it may be best for everyone involved if “EverySecret Thing” stays between only a select few viewers.