HBO’s “Bessie,” premiering Saturday on the network, is aflawed drama that nonetheless warrants a look simply because of the brightspotlight it gives the underrated talents of starQueen Latifah, who does quiteeasily the best work of her career here. This sexually-charged, intense look atBlues icon Bessie Smith often feels defiantly episodic, as ifco-writer/directorDee Reesis purposefully trying to sketch a portrait of alife in incomplete brush strokes, but Latifah, who is in nearly every scene,never falters in her portrayal of a woman who was too edgy, too real, and tootough to be famous before the world came crashing down around her. Advertisement In the first full scene of “Bessie,” the title character(Queen Latifah) is getting hot and heavy in an alley when her paramour goes a gropetoo far and starts to get violent when she refuses. She does not give in, grabbinga glass shard off the pavement and stabbing her attacker, before going on stageto sing a number. Bessie takes no shit from anyone. Even those who would offerher good advice or further her career are often pushed aside by pride and egoas much as artistic integrity. Across most of “Bessie,” we see the titlecharacter confronting authority, patriarchy, the white male establishment, etc.She is presented with an opportunity to find a broader audience but compromise—sherefuses. She encounters a violent KKK sect trying to shut down a performance—shemeets violence with violence. In one great moment,Langston Hugheswarns her to“play” to her white, snooty crowd before she heads into a party to perform. Sheshoots him down with a glance. Bessie Smith was a vaudeville smash in the 1920s, successfulenough to have her own train on which she toured the country, and to inspireNina Simone and Billie Holliday. She rose to fame purely through talent andsheer will, but demons like addiction and the ceiling she eventually hit byrefusing to bend to the will of white producers kept her out of the spotlight,and even sunk her so low that her family was threatened. “Bessie” hides none ofSmith’s demons or resilience. Reportedly in the making for 22 years from ascript byHorton Foote, it’s easy to see why “Bessie” was a film inevitability.This is a great story of a relatively unheralded talent. And everyone involved should be grateful that Queen Latifahagreed to take on this challenging role, one that she had reportedly beencircling for over a decade. She is powerful, fearless, and, when needed,vulnerable in a role that could easily win her an Emmy and a Golden Globe.Criticisms of “Bessie” fall away when this performance is considered,especially when one balances the emotional intensity of the final act with thebravado of the first two. Bessie never feels like a dramatic creation; sheresonates with truth, whether it be in the longing that led her to multipleaffairs (including ones with characters played byMike EppsandTika Sumpter),or in her downright allergic reactions to what she saw as fakeness in her profession.Blues legend Ma Rainey (Mo’Nique) tells Smith early on, “You got to put something else in it. The blues is not about peopleknowing you, it’s about you knowing people.” Queen Latifah really got toknow Bessie Smith in ways that other actresses couldn’t have. Advertisement Sometimes scripts that have been around as long as “Bessie”get over-worked, over-edited, over-analyzed to the point that they lose some ofthat screenwriting “magic.” The first half of “Bessie” feels a bit toocalculated, too episodic in a way designed to give Latifah and her co-stars(including the greatMichael K. Williams) the right number of big momentswithout linking them together in the arc of a life. And regular TV cinematographerJeffrey Jurshoots too much of the film like a TV movie. It doesn't have the cinematic scope or visual language I wish it did outside of the musical numbers. As for storytelling, I found myself too often asking, especially in the first half, "What are we supposedto take away from this story?" Maybe nothing. Maybe we're just supposed to know more about an underrated musical icon. For that reason, “Bessie” is best appreciated as a character/performancepiece. Like you would if you went to an actual Blues concert, just enjoy thestar in the spotlight, sharing some of herself and some of the visions of hersongwriters in every note.