“Slow West” must be counted one of the most unintentionallyridiculous Westerns to come down the pike in a long, long while. From firsttill last, this tale of a hard-boiled bounty hunter helping a Scottish lad onhis quest to find the woman he loves, who’s on the lam in the old West, is atissue of creaky contrivances and outright absurdities. Debuting directorJohn Macleanis a Scottish musician, whichno doubt helps explain some of the film’s peculiarities. The British movie’sproduction notes reveal that his knowledge of the American West derives fromreading authors likeMark Twainand watching Western movies, both classic andmodern. That’s one way of approaching the genre, but it’s perhaps not asadvantageous as incorporating a little knowledge of the actual place and thepeople who once inhabited it. Advertisement Granted, from EdwinS. Porter’s “The Great Train Robbery” (1903) on, Westerns have blended one partfactualness to three parts fantasy and romance. And European directors from JanTroell toSergio Leonehave done credible jobs in turning the genre to theirown ends. But such filmmakers have usually had a firm grasp either of theregion’s history or its particular mythology; Maclean’s work suggests littlefamiliarity with either. One detail which may seem trivial at first glance but whichstands for larger deficiencies is that the film’s Scottish boy-hero, JayCavendish (Kodi Smit-McPhee), is shown crossing the Great Plains on horsebackwithout a hat. Do you suppose any male in the 19thcentury ever did such a thing? Not very likely, for anobvious reason: a real-life Jay Cavendish, with his milky Scottish pallor,would have been broiled lobster-red on the first sunny day. This is the kind of minor weirdness that can throw a viewermentally out of the film and into a thicket of questions. Did Maclean and hiscollaborators not realize their decision would call attention to itself? Was itintended to say something, about either the film or its protagonist, or did itcome from the thought, say, that “Kodi has nice curly hair, he’ll look cuter ifhe’s not wearing a hat?”In fact, considerations of cuteness, while not usually afactor in westerns, seem to have played a significant role in the making of“Slow West.”Another detail. In a couple of scenes we see walls plasteredwith “Wanted” posters, some of which contain the faces of real-life 19thcentury Americans such as Robert E. Lee. Here again, you’re thrown out of thefilm and obliged to ask, Did the Brits making this film not know these wereactual people whom American viewers would recognize? Was using their faces aninside joke, an attempt at some kind of commentary, or just a goof? To turn from details to larger matters: The film’s centralrelationship, that between 17-year-old Cavendish and bounty hunter SilasSelleck (Michael Fassbender), is unbelievable from the first. Jay meets thegunslinger just after we see him kill some guys, which makes it very clear thathe’s a predatory bad-ass who’s not shy about using lethal force if it suitshim. Jay offers Silas some money to accompany him west. So why wouldn’t thebad-ass simply knock the kid over the head—or shoot him—and take his money? Advertisement The only realistic answer to that, it would seem, is thatSilas is a walking absurdity, the male equivalent of the Whore With a Heart ofGold: the Bad-Ass Who’s Really a Decent Guy Underneath. (Shane, come back!) Maclean must’ve have realized early on that, since both charactersare two-dimensional constructs, their relationship couldn’t go very far, so heunderstandably separates them for a good chunk of the story. When theyreconvene, we get what is perhaps the film’s most famous image: Silas shavingJay with a Bowie knife. This too provokes questions: Would a real 19thcentury bad-ass really shave a dewy-cheeked lad—with all the intimacy thatimplies but no evident erotic interest—as opposed to telling or showing himhow to do it himself? Unlikely, but you have to admit the image is cute, andcuteness counts for a lot in this fictional universe. A few other things that struck this reviewer as noticeablycredulity-straining: Advertisement Certainly, realism and believability don’t count foreverything in a genre as fanciful and imagination-dependent as the western. Buttoo many howlers like the countless ones in “Slow West” and a viewer’ssuspension of disbelief can be completely shredded. Ultimately, it may not havebeen the filmmakers’ wisest decision to shoot their nominally Colorado-setmovie in New Zealand—i.e., about as far from the real American West as youcan get. (Nevertheless, the shooting location does provide some very sceniclandscapes forRobbie Ryan’s gorgeous cinematography, the movie’s strongestasset.) Finally, what is the film’s title supposed to mean? Sure,it’s a play on “Go West (young man).” But the West we see in “Slow West” isn’tnoticeably slower or faster than that in other westerns. So it means nothing –but it is kind of cute, wouldn’t you say?