Attemptingto make a companion to "The French Connection" is the kind ofseemingly foolhardy move that would give even the most audacious of filmmakers pause—William Friedkin's 1971 award-winner literally redefinedwhat could be done within the confines of the cop movie genre. (This was provendefinitively in 1975 when not even returning starsGene Hackmanand FernandoRey and talented directorJohn Frankenheimercould make "The FrenchConnection II" into anything more than a barely-remembered mediocrity.)Nevertheless, the new French crime drama “The Connection” attempts to do just that, and, while the resultsinevitably pale in comparison to "The French Connection"—which could be said about virtually every other filmcurrently in release—they do make for anabove-average work that offers viewers a new perspective on a familiar story. Advertisement The film offersa European take on the "French Connection" story by telling the taleof the infamous heroin smuggling ring and a cop charged with bringing it downon their home turf of Marseilles. The cop is Pierre Michel (Jean Dujardin), asteadfast and dedicated magistrate who is all too familiar with the horrors ofaddiction from his years bearing witness to junkies as a child protectiveservices officer and from his own past struggles with gambling. His main targetis Gatean "Tany" Zampa (Gilles Lellouche), the man heading a criminalenterprise that has been sending huge amounts of heroin to America. Anincreasingly violent game of cat and mouse develops between the two, each onedetermined to stop the other at all costs. As theygo about their respective businesses, we begin to learn more about the two menand what makes them tick. Pierre, for example, is as incorruptible of a cop asone could hope to find, but it soon becomes obvious that his tunnel-visionattitude toward work has wreaked havoc on his personal life by straining hisrelationship with his wife (Celine Sallette) to the breaking point. Tany alsohas problems on the home front, chiefly in the form of a money pit of anightclub he has opened to keep his own wife happy. Interestingly, Tany doesnot come across like a drug kingpin as much as he does just an ordinarybusinessman whose life is a never-ending parade of shipping schedules, profitmargins and labor problems in need of settling—hismethod of dealing with an associate with a cocaine problem is certainly unique.And yet, while they may be similar in certain ways, they are in a situation inwhich only one can survive and each goes to great lengths to ensure that it isthey who succeed. Theoriginal "The French Connection" is still revered for its intense andelaborate action set-pieces (it still holds a place of high prominence on thelist of all-time great car chases) and director Cedric Jimenez has wiselychosen not to try to emulate it on those grounds. Instead of a standardthriller with the requisite number of action beats, he takes a more purelyprocedural approach, more interested in the accumulation of details surroundingthe case and the people involved—in that regard, it is closerto David Fincher's masterpiece "Zodiac" than anything else. There isa lot of information being conveyed here, but Jimenez and co-writer AudreyDiwan do an effective job of putting it forth in a lucid and straightforwardmanner. He also does a strong job of evoking the mid-Seventies period withoutresorting to kitschy clothes or soundtrack choices thanks to a visual stylethat is clearly evocative of the crime dramas of the era. (That said, it doesrun a little long at 135 minutes and probably could have survived with one ortwo fewer montage sequences.) Advertisement Thecasting of Dujardin, most famous for his Oscar-winning performance as theflailing movie star in "The Artist," may strike some people as a bitodd, and, indeed, his undeniably debonair persona does seem somewhat strange inthe early scenes. As the film progresses and he becomes more and more grippedwith nailing Tany at all costs, that slick veneer slips away and his characterbecomes a sweaty raw nerve that he portrays with undeniable power. As hisopposite, Lellouche is equally compelling in the way that he makes his ruthlesscrime lord into someone that viewers can still relate to on a basic human leveldespite his ever-expanding list of misdeeds. There is a large cast ofsupporting players surrounding these two throughout and their contributions goa long way towards helping to establish the period and the tone of the film asa whole. Again, "TheConnection" is not going to replace "The French Connection" inthe collective moviegoing mind anytime soon. However, fans of that film willfind it to be an interesting riff on a familiar story while those who haven'tseen it will be able to appreciate it as a solidly made crime drama in its ownright.