George Miller’s “Mad Max” films didn’t just makeMel Gibsona star—they completely transformed post-apocalyptic entertainment with theirvisceral stunt work and singular vision of an increasingly desperate future.Three decades after the last film, the oft-maligned “Mad Max BeyondThunderdome,” Miller finally returns to this desolate landscape for thehighly-anticipated “Mad Max: Fury Road,” recasting the title role in thegrizzled visage ofTom Hardyand upping the stakes with promises of vehicularmayhem on a level commensurate with what modern CGI audiences have come toexpect. Advertisement From its very first scenes, “Fury Road” vibrates with theenergy of a veteran filmmaker working at the top of his game, pushing usforward without the cheap special effects or paper-thin characters that have sooften defined the modern summer blockbuster. Miller hasn’t just returned with anew installment in a money-making franchise. The man who re-wrote the rules ofthe post-apocalyptic action genre has returned to show a generation offilmmakers how they’ve been stumbling in their attempts to follow in hisfootsteps. “Who was more crazy?Me, or everyone else?” In “Mad Max: Fury Road,” Miller has pushed hisGilliam-esque vision of a world gone mad to its logical extreme. No longer arethe people of Max Rockatansky’s world merely scavengers for oil or power; theyhave been transformed into creatures of circumstance, either left with onedefining need or left without any semblance of reason. “Fury Road” is a violentfilm, but the violent acts in this world don’t feel like arbitrary actionbeats—they emerge from a complete lack of other options or a firm sense ofstraight-up insanity. Miller’s new vision of Max isn’t a warrior. Rather, he’sa man driven by the memories of past sins to do little more than survive. Hewalks with the ghosts of those he couldn’t save, and his traveling companionshave pushed him to the brink of sanity. While wandering at this edge, Max is kidnapped and transformedinto a literal blood bag for a feral warrior named Nux (Nicholas Hoult), whoserves the whims of his maniacal ruler, Immortan Joe (Hugh Keays-Byrne, whoalso played the villain Toecutter in the original “Mad Max”). From the start,Miller gives you no time to “ease” into this world or the story he wants totell. The frame rate is accelerated, the editing is hyperactive, the bad guyspeaks through a mask that makes half his dialogue indecipherable (shades ofHardy’s Bane from “The Dark Knight Rises”), and the horrific visions of Miller’stwisted future come fast and furious. Immortan Joe is a barely-alive freak ofnature, kept breathing by tubes connected to his face and served by similarlydisfigured half-humans with definitive names like Rictus Erectus (Nathan Jones)and The People Eater (John Howard). Advertisement One of Joe’s most notable warriors is a powerful woman knownas Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron), who, as the film opens, is leading aconvoy from Immortan Joe’s citadel to the oil refinery Gastown when shedeviates off course. It turns out that Furiosa has kidnapped Joe’s “breeders,”the women he keeps prisoner in an effort to create a male heir. She’s takingthem to “the green place,” to safety.Ofcourse, Joe sends his men after Furiosa—including Nux, to whom Max is still attached—andthe rest of “Mad Max: Fury Road” consists of one long sustained chase acrossthe unforgiving desert. With the exception of one centerpiece of dialogue, thefilm takes place almost entirely on the move, speeding, chasing, bouncing, andexploding across Miller’s scorched landscape. As a reflection of more desperate times, Miller has updatedthe needs of his future world from commodities like oil to pure survival. Maxhas been reimagined as a fighting, driving machine, a man who “finds his ownway,” moving forward in an attempt to outrun his ghosts. Nux is a brainwashedgoon, a man-creature who believes that he will die and be reborn aftersacrificing himself for a trip to Valhalla. Max eventually steps into the roleof the action hero, but, in one of his most daring moves, Miller gives theweight of the narrative to Furiosa, a woman who holds on to the only thing thatcould possibly give her hope in this violent world—the next generation. Therondoes arguably the best work of her career here, artfully conveying the drive inFuriosa’s soul in a way that fuels the entire film. She does more with asearing stare or clenched jaw than most actresses could with a page ofdialogue. And one shouldn’t undervalue the empowerment message at the heart ofthis film—Eve Ensler, author of “The Vagina Monologues” consulted with Milleron the script—which suggests that women, as the creators of new life, will,inherently, always be the gender that holds hardest onto hope for the future.Furiosa looks at the insanity of the male leadership around her and decidesenough is enough. When one of Furiosa’s wards goes into labor and still defendsherself and her yet-to-be-born child (after being shot no less), it’s hard notto see “Fury Road” as an answer to the macho nonsense that so often defines theaction genre. But none of that should remotely imply that the action hereis lost in the message. The pacing, the sound design, the editing, the music(courtesy of Junkie XL and some of Joe’s freaks who play drums and electricguitars during the action), and even the emotional stakes are all so far aboveaverage that they make just about any other car-chase movie look like a quaintSunday drive by comparison. The first chase in “Fury Road,” as Joe’s men catchup to Furiosa and her precious cargo, is one of the most remarkable actionsequences in film history. And that’s really just a warm-up. It’s noexaggeration to say that, if you think something in “Fury Road” is the most breathtakingaction stunt you’ve seen in years, you really need only wait a few minutes tosee something better. This is a movie where you keep thinking that its reached itsapex and then, inexplicably, that moment is left behind in the dust. Advertisement From the very beginning, Miller and his team do somethingthat so many other filmmakers fail to do—they define the geography of theiraction. Rather than merely tossing the camera around in the vain hopes ofcreating tension, they constantly give the viewer overhead shots and clearphysical dimensions of what’s happening and where we’re going. And then theyblow it all up. There are dozens of crashes, explosions, and flying bodies in“Fury Road,” and yet the piece never gets repetitive, especially as theemotional stakes increase with each sequence. Miller knows when to let the pacecoast when it needs to, which is rarely, and then he pushes the pedal down andplasters you to your seat. “Mad Max: Fury Road” is an action film about redemption andrevolution. Never content to merely repeat what he’s done before (even thefirst three “Mad Max” have very distinct personalities), Miller has redefined hisvision of the future yet again, vibrantly imagining a world in which men have becomethe pawns of insane leaders and women hold fiercely onto the last vestiges ofhope. “Fury Road” would be remarkable enough as a pure technicalaccomplishment—a film that laughs in the face of blockbuster CGI orgies withsome of the best editing and sound design the genre has ever seen—and yetMiller reaches for something greater than technical prowess. He holds aloft theaction template that he created with “The Road Warrior” and argues thatHollywood shouldn’t have been copying it for the past three decades, theyshould have been building on it. “Fury Road” is a challenge to a wholegeneration of action filmmakers, urging them to follow its audacious path into thegenre’s future and, like Miller, try their hardest to create something new.