Oren Peliis a little obsessed with people going places theydon’t belong. Whether it’s the poor travelers in “The Chernobyl Diaries” or thetreacherous journey of TV’s “The River,” both of which Peli wrote, thefilmmaker has an undeniable interest in those who see the well-defined border,cross it, and suffer the consequences. It’s somewhat ironic that the series forwhich Peli will likely always be most associated is about people who neverleave their home. In 2007, “Paranormal Activity” not only launched a franchise(a SIXTH film called “Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension” is coming outthis year, and Peli has been producer on all of them) but essentially spun offanother one as Peli tweaked his haunted house formula and produced the “Insidious”films as well. Peli is a horror icon and yet, until today, only one film he hasever directed appeared in theaters. Eight years later, through ridiculous post-production delays and reshoots, “Area 51” is finally here, perhaps trying to avoid the appellation ofsophomore slump by taking so long to get to theaters and being relativelyunceremoniously released in select theaters and on VOD. Nice try. Advertisement Of course, like “Paranormal Activity,” most of “Area 51” lookslike DIY, found-footage material, although the film so quickly fails the WhyWould They Film That test that it’s best to just consider it a cinematographicchoice (like Dogme 95) instead of trying to figure out who’s holding the cameraand why. To that end, the shaky-cam, found-footage thing likely wasn’t asplayed out when Peli started filming “Area 51” in 2009, and the aesthetic hereisn’t quite as annoying as it sometimes can be in “Paranormal Activity”wannabes. You won’t need Dramamine. Three dude-bros go to a party; one dude-bro goes missing. Hepops up, horror movie-style, in front of the car of his leaving buddies, notquite looking the same. Three months later, the man-children plan a trip toVegas, where they will meet someone who will help them infiltrate the legendaryArea 51, the Nevada government complex rumored for decades to house proof ofalien life. Of course, they need a stop-off at the Hooters Casino first. Beforeyou know it, they’re using night vision cameras and breaking into places theyshouldn’t be. Well, not exactly before you know it. “Area 51” isessentially what we call a Slow Burn horror film, in that most of the bulk ofthe running time consists of preparation. They talk about the titular locationway more than anything else. And there’s a disturbing amount of prep to do—scenesof the boys getting their materials together, scouting the location, dealingwith security and eventual knocks on their door in the middle of the night. There’sno tension or action for the longest time and "Area 51" might have been better served as a short film or episode of an anthology series in that the entire first-hour of set-up could have been cut to five minutes. In one mildly entertaining interlude, the film echoes “Willow Creek” a bit whenthe boys start talking to locals about the alien legend (a la the way BobcatGoldthwait plays with mythology in the first two acts of his bigfoot film), butPeli isn’t as skilled a filmmaker and the characters here are so paper-thinthat I just watched the movie and I’m not sure I could pick them out of aline-up. Advertisement Eventually, they get where they’re going and there’s lots ofwhispering (“Let’s keep moving”) butvery little actual threat. When they find a lab with weird blobby things andfloating rocks, things start to get more interesting, but that’s not until thehour-mark. Sorry, spoiler I guess, but I’m not sure if it’s really a spoiler ifit’s the first interesting thing that happens in a movie. To be fair, the slowburn does eventually catch fire and there’s lots of screaming and heavy breathing and dark tunnels and running andwhat-not. The relatively tense final half-hour is clearly the reason that verysmart producerJason Blumthought this would be a solid follow-up to “ParanormalActivity.” It’s that first hour that is the reason it took six years to(barely) get released.