Right off the bat, Alonso Ruizpalacios’ “Güeros” capturesthree superlatives from this reviewer: Best debut feature I’ve seen in the lastyear, best Mexican film in recent memory, and best (black and white)cinematography sincePawel Pawlikowski’s equally stunning but very different“Ida.” Lauded at numerous international film festivals since itdebuted last year at Berlin (where it won Best First Feature), the offbeat comedymight also be called the most creative recent engagement with the cinematicpast, especially the French New Wave, but that’s a subject that deserves bothexplication and rumination, so let’s start with the basics. Advertisement The year is 1999. Tomás (Sebastián Aguirre) is a teenagetroublemaker who lives in Veracruz with his mother, whom he’s driving crazy.One day, when he drops a water bomb off a roof and it hits a harried woman andher baby, mom decides she can’t take it any more and sends the boy to stay withhis older brother, Federico, a.k.a. Sombra (Tenoch Huerta), a college studentin Mexico City. “Güeros” is a film of running jokes, and one concerns thesiblings’ skin colors. The word “güeros,” a derogatory slang term meaningsomething like “paleface” or “whitey,” applies to fair-skinned Tomás. Sombra(the nickname means “shade”) is dark, meanwhile. That practically everyone theymeet seems to remark on this difference is never explained, but that somehow makes it everdroller. When Tomás arrives in Mexico City, he finds his bro holed up inhis incredibly filthy high-rise dorm room with his roommate and partner inslackerdom Santos (Leonardo Ortizgris). At night, they live by candlelight, ifthat, because there’s no electricity. Daytime, they sometimes cadge power via acord supplied by their downstairs neighbors’ mentally challenged daughter. Santos and Sombra are nominally students, but they’re not inclass because their school is on strike. So why aren’t they out demonstrating?“We’re on strike from the strike,” they explain. In other words, they’recompletely inert and disengaged, living on fumes and not interested in doingotherwise. Ironically, it’s the arrival of young screw-up Tomás thatinjects some motion into their lives. The boy idolizes a legendary Mexicanrock’n’roll pioneer named Epigmeneo Cruz (Alfonso Charpener), whose music helistens to on a battered cassette handed down from his and Sombra’s absentfather. When Tomás learns that Cruz is reportedly near death at a hospital inthe city, he persuades Sombra and Santos that they must find him and pay theirfinal respects. That, plus the fact that their downstairs neighbor wants tobeat their asses for stealing his power, propels the guys out onto the highwayin their shitty clunker, on an odyssey that takes them through many cul de sacsand wrong turns but also includes a stop at their embattled university. Advertisement Here, the film’s desultory pacing and whimsical mood giveway to something much more electrifying: a university in the tumult ofrevolution. The situation is both dramatically and thematically important, soit’s worth quoting Ruizpalacios’ words on it. “In April 1999,” he wrote, “the Universidad NacionalAutónoma de México (UNAM) students began to strike to show their disagreementwith the administration’s decision to instate an enrollment fee even though theUniversity had always been free….What started as a symbol of dissidence (itturned out to be the biggest movement since the 1968 student strikes) finishedas an existential crisis for many involved. Before long, social disparitiesbegan to surface within the student movement, causing distance between peoplewho were involved. A lot people found themselves not only without a university,but without a purpose in life, no beliefs, nowhere to belong. “’Güeros,’” he continued, “is actually two movies in one. Onone hand, it is a portrait of this particular stage in Mexico’s history. On theother…it is an exploration of Mexican youth who are not able to feel at ease intheir own country.” This double purpose is a fascinating concept on the thematiclevel, and it has a corollary on the formal level that gives the film’sspecifically Mexican social and historical concerns a universal cinematicreach. For, just as the story implicitly looks from the student activism of themoment (particularly related to the disappearance of 43 students in Guerrerostate last year) back toward the ‘60s brand via 1999 (when issues of identitypolitics began to intrude), so do the film’s filmic references harken backtoward such films as Godard’s “Breathless” and other ‘60s classics, but throughthe prism of more recent works such as “Stranger Than Paradise,” “Slacker” andothers. That scheme of references may sound a bit dense on paper,but it helps explain why the film’s New Wave evocations come across not asstatic or precious idolatry (as purely aesthetic tributes tend to make them)but as part of an active, challenging dialectic that involves both politics andmovies. In a sense, “Güeros” asks the viewer what the ‘60s were worth, in termsof its innovative popular artanditspolitical radicalism—which of course were completely intertwined. Yet itdoesn’t assume there are any clear-cut or easy answers. If the film comes at uswith a heady appreciation for both the movies and revolutionary impulses of1968, it does so with a witty circumspection that admits that their value hasbeen continually amended and complicated by more recent developments. Advertisement And while Ruizapalacios has admitted other influencesranging from Ozu to Fellini toMonte Hellman, the New Wave does seem to be hispole star. You get that in the film’s focus on marginal, quasi-hipstercharacters; its self-reflexivity and cascade of cinematic and pop-culture nods;its winningly naturalistic performances, jerky, stop-start plotting andgeographic peregrinations (the director has called it a road movie about MexicoCity); and, most especially, in Damián Garcia’s exultant camerawork, which has afluid, observant lyricism worthy of ace New Wave lensmanRaoul Coutard. In one sense, the film is a great lark, a dizzy road tripwith some entertaining knuckleheads, both light-skinned and dark. Yet it alsomanages to be a movie with some serious things on its mind, for those who want to think about what it’s saying. More than perhaps any other country, Mexico haslobbed some real cinematic intelligence onto the world stage in recent years.“Güeros” continues that salutary tradition. A sly, insouciant masterpiece, itmarks Alonso Ruizpalacios as a talent to watch.