Rarely has a remake felt more contractually obligated than the2015 version of “Poltergeist.” There are a few decent performances, a nice riffon the technology fears that drove the original movie, and a centerpiece ofhorror that works, but never once do you get the feeling that the people behindthis remake are here because of artistic passion or creative drive. They’rehere because, well, somebody had to be here, so why not them? With remakes of “Nightmareon Elm Street,” “Friday the 13th,” “Evil Dead,” and more already onthe books, “Poltergeist” is even arguably a bit late to the party. And theydidn’t bring a gift. Advertisement The Bowen family has fallen on hard times. Eric (SamRockwell) has lost his job at John Deere, forcing them to move to a new home,one which his teenage daughter Kendra (Saxon Sharbino) openly mocks. Mother Amy(Rosemarie DeWitt) has raised a beautiful family, but may have to go back to aday job to make ends meet. Son Griffin (Kyle Catlett) is going through that fearfultime of childhood when we hear noises in our closets and wonder what’s underthe bed. Finally, Madison (Kennedi Clements) is a unique little girl, the kindwho talks to her imaginary friends a bit too often. Before the Bowens have even unpacked, weird things are afootin their new abode. Griffin hears sounds in his attic bedroom, and finds a boxfull of creepy clown toys. He also really doesn’t like the look of the old treenearly scratching his skylight. One night, while Eric and Amy are out todinner, all Hell quite literally breaks loose. In a pretty effective centerpiece,all three children are attacked separately. Hands popping out of the floor,trees crashing through windows, and those damn clowns—it’s a solid sequencethat ends with Madison being taken to the other side. As she fights forsurvival between worlds, the Bowens have to call in paranormal experts(includingJared HarrisandJane Adams) to save their little girl.Tobe Hooper’s “Poltergeist” had two thematic foundationsthat have been essentially transferred intact toGil Kenan’s version. It was nomere coincidence that little Carol Ann was sucked into her TV as fears that theidiot box would forever destroy the next generation were pretty common in theearly ‘80s. In the update, technology is everywhere, and even integrated into thenarrative in scenes like the one where Kendra hears something strange throughthe static on her smartphone and the later use of drone technology. The fear oftechnology isn’t quite developed adequately here (nothing is), but I liked howDavid Lindsay-Abairecaptured the modern world in which we are surrounded by electrical toys—the ominousshots of the power lines behind their house are not accidental. Advertisement Even more importantly, “Poltergeist” in both forms has a solid answer for thecommon question that plagues haunted house movies: Why don’t they just leave?By the time the Bowens figure out what’s going on, one of them is missing, andthey’re forced to band together to save her. In many ways, especially in theoriginal, it’s about a broken family uniting in common cause to save one oftheir own. That element is strong here thanks in no small part to believable husband-wifechemistry between Rockwell and DeWitt and solid kid performances, especiallyCatlett. The problem is that neither of these elements feel fresh ornew. Nothing about “Poltergeist” feels fresh or new. And while the mere joy ofseeing actors like Rockwell and DeWitt do their thing works for a little while,it can’t sustain as the horror narrative intensifies and a few things getdecidedly goofy to maintain the PG-13 rating. By the last act, I really didn’tcare what happened to the Bowens or those brought in to save them. The stakesdon’t feel nearly as high here and the thematic undercurrents of the first acthave disappeared as the actors and filmmakers go through their motions. Harrisis having fun as a reality TV star ghost hunter but he can’t fix thescreenwriting flaws of a project that inevitably feels like it's just racing to the end, andnot in a way that produces any sort of tension. Maybe we’re a more cynical audience and the films that havecopied the original “Poltergeist” over the years have lessened the impact ofthe original blueprint so slavishly followed here. If that’s the case, Kenan and his team needed to find anotherreason to update it. Or any reason at all really.One Final Note: Rarely has 3D been less essential or felt like more of a cash grab. See it in 2D if you choose to see it at all.