It’s impossible to watch “When Marnie Was There” andnotconsider it as something of an elegyfor Studio Ghibli. This tender, earnest melodrama will be the last film fromthe legendary animation studio for the foreseeable future, and its themes offriendship, fantasy, and a quest for emotional strength fit snugly in theGhibli canon. Ultimately, the second film fromHiromasa Yonebayashi(“TheSecret World of Arriety”) may feel like minor Ghibli, but it is alsofinalGhibli, which gives it added, butundeniable, emotional resonance that it may otherwise lack. “When Marnie WasThere” is a sweet tale about learning to embrace our tragic pasts anddifferences not so we fit in but so we are comfortable on our own. It is filledwith the luscious, beautiful 2D animation that we’ve come to expect fromGhibli, and if the storytelling sometimes gets a bit lethargic for its owngood, we’re more forgiving just to have one final dance in the moonlight. Advertisement Like so much Ghibli, “When Marnie Was There” centers onchange of location impacting emotional healing. Anna is a foster child, whoseparents died long ago, with all the identity crises that often come with thatlife situation. She’s lonely, asthmatic, and severely depressed. “Marnie” doesn’tshy away from honest sadness. “Ugly,stupid, moody, unpleasant. That’s why I hate myself.” This is emotionallyraw material. She’s not just lost or depressed. She’s borderline suicidal inways that we don’t usually see in Young Adult fiction, much less animation. Andthe intensity of Anna’s sadness makes her arc more resonant—it feels more likea fight for survival than mere fantasy. After an asthma attack, Anna’s foster parents send her to aseaside community to rest for the summer. She’s instantly drawn to a mansion onthe marsh, that’s reportedly haunted, and often accessible only by rowboat whenthe tide is high. In the upstairs, bedroom window, Anna spots a girl namedMarnie, with whom she becomes friends one night. Marnie is the physical oppositeof Anna. Marnie has a bow in her long, blonde hair, and only wears dresses.Anna has cropped black hair, shorts, and wears a collared shirt. Marnie isplayful, almost childlike—laughing, smiling, and taking risks like standing onthe edge of a moving rowboat like a mini-“Titanic.” Anna is sullen, but her newbest friend opens her up to the world. Is Marnie a ghost? An imaginary friend? Something else? Thelines between reality and fantasy start to blur in the second act. Anna can’tremember the names of her caretakers. Marnie disappears. Or does Anna? It’salmost as if both Anna and Marnie are imagining each other—neither is real,neither is a ghost; both girls are what the other needs. Marnie gives Anna joy.Anna gives Marnie security. They help each other get through this melancholyworld. There are times, especially in the first act, when “WhenMarnie Was There” lacks a certain urgency, often moving with all the drive of abreeze through the oft-heard wind chimes. And then the final act really grabsthe heartstrings with both hands and pulls hard. By that point, Yonebayashi hasearned it, if not completely on his own, with the weight of decades of animatedbrilliance from the studio at which he works. As emotions swell at the end of “WhenMarnie Was There,” I questioned whether or not they were specific to the movie itselfor to what it means as a closing chapter to a major part of film history. Andthen I realized it doesn’t matter. Just as Marnie and Anna’s fates areintertwined, just as history and the present exist in the same moment in thefilm, what Ghibli has meant to the world can’t be extricated from its last,beautiful cinematic gift. Advertisement