“His purity was a very attractive quality,” says aninterview subject of Carl Boenish, the subject of this intermittentlycompelling but rather unfortunately titled documentary, directed by MarahStrauch. Boenish is—okay, there’s no point in being coy, the proper verb hereis “was”—a founder of BASE jumping. BASE standing for “building,antenna, span, or Earth,” that last meaning a cliff. I guess if you didn’tcapitalize it or acronymize it the term would still make sense, as you’rejumping off or from something that isn’t moving and hence could be considered abase. In any event, whatever you’re jumping from is pretty far up, and you’reusing a parachute and/or wearing one of those glider getups. Don’t look at me,I’m afraid of heights. Advertisement But Boenish sure as hell wasn’t. The movie chronicles hislove of skydiving from a very early age. He wasn’t just in love with the fallthat simulated flying, he was passionate about chronicling what one saw fromstarting way up and shooting straight down. Boenish was a cinematographer whoworked with directorJohn Frankenheimeron his skydiving movie “The Gypsy Moths,”on which another BASE jumping pioneer, Todd Higley, worked. (Higley does notfigure in this film.) Some of the best stuff in the movie derives fromBoenish-shot footage—heights may be scary but they do tend to furnish somespectacular views. Eventually, Boenish drifted away from Hollywood and pursuedjumping full time, and with evangelical zeal. He started doing jumps off of LosAngeles skyscrapers, much to the consternation of the buildings’ owners. Ininterview footage he evinces a blithe, borderline glib disregard for rules ofall sorts. Later in the film, we learn that Boenish had trouble walking fastand far because he’d broken his leg in one exploit, and refused to have it setbecause he was a Christian Scientist. I found it curious that he had so littleregard for convention in one case, and stuck to the letter of religiousdoctrine under circumstances that must have caused him extreme pain. The moviedoesn’t find this curious at all. The subject matter increasingly suggests akind of cross between “Man On Wire” and “Grizzly Man,” but unlike “Grizzly Man”directorWerner Herzog, director Strauch has little interrogative spirit.There’s no interest in exploring Boenish’s contradictions. The interviewee who notes Boenish’s purity is his wife,Jean, who it seems turned out to be his greatest and most devoted disciple. Thefilm’s last section focuses on a fateful 1984 trip to Norway, where Boenishjumps from a cliff face for a “Guinness World Records” television specialhosted by David Frost and young Kathie Lee Johnson, now Kathie Lee Gifford anda rather more seasoned and terrifying TV presence. (Neither Frost, who died in2013, nor Gifford, who appears to be alive, was interviewed for the film.) Thejump recorded for the television special goes off flawlessly, while a jumpBoenish does just for the heck of it does not. The editorial choices in thissection go more than a little slack; we hear about Boenish’s bum leg more thanthree times in less than ten minutes. Reflecting on the events thirty years later,Jean has no apologies: “Everyone has his own real way of reacting. It will beindividual. And BASE jumping encourages people to think as individuals…” BASEjumping is now considered a legitimate “extreme” sport, and Boenish’s widowthinks this is all well and good; extreme experience, she says, “is not uniqueto BASE jumping. BASE jumping is just a condensed version.” By this time in thefilm, the dramatic reenactments of events had grown pretty thick, which tried mypatience; I also have to admit I found Jean Boenish’s philosophical musingsless than persuasive. And I don’t think my fear of heights was the reason formy bias. Advertisement