“Can the government use hacking techniques to catch acriminal, and, if so, what kind of warrant do they need?”—Andy Greenberg,WIRED It’s an important question that faces us in the seconddecade of the 21stcentury. How do we maintain the privacy that isso essential to our society when the internet allows for so many ways todestroy it?Alex Winter’s “Deep Web” could someday make an interestingcompanion piece toLaura Poitras’ award-winning “Citizenfour” in that bothfilms are about men whose fates are intertwined with that conversation aboutprivacy, legality and the gray area in between. Sadly, while Winter’s film,which debuts on Epix on May 31st, raises some interesting talkingpoints, it doesn’t go much deeper than Greenberg’s question. Winter focuses sotightly on the details of his chosen story that he fails to place it in thecontext of overall issues of internet privacy, commerce and the drug war. Advertisement The title “Deep Web” refers to the underground portion ofthe internet that is significantly bigger than what most of you access on adaily basis. There were (and are) illegal things going on in the deep web, butit is also a place for political and controversial speech not allowed by allgovernments of the world. In other words, it’s important. It’s crucial to haveplaces online that support privacy to a degree that corporations anddictatorships cannot interfere. The lightning rod for the Deep Web’s emergence into thepublic sphere was Silk Road, a web service that facilitated the sale of highlyillegal drugs. Managed by someone calling himself Dread Pirate Roberts (from “ThePrincess Bride”), Silk Road had arguably positive intentions. The ineffectivewar on drugs has killed thousands. Silk Road takes it out of the alleys and thedangerous neighborhoods and arguably makes it a safer business transaction,complete with a review process for drug dealers. Dread Pirate Roberts sawhimself as a leader of a movement—less government control, destruction of thecorrupt drug war. But was he a freedom fighter or a digitalTony Montana? The government argued he was the latter and did everythingthey could to bring him down, even learning his identity:Ross Ulbricht. Howdid they do that? Well, that’s a good question. The exact route officials tookto Ulbricht’s identity is a bit of a crucial question mark in that theirexplanation basically seems about as likely as getting hit by lightning twice. Theyessentially claim they stumbled on to the real identity of Dread Pirate Robertsthrough a Captcha loophole and started building their case. Said case includeda shocking accusation: DPR/Ulbricht had taken out a few hits on people hewanted to see dead. Now, none of these people died, but folding these murder chargesinto their conspiracy charges allowed them to paint Ulbricht as a nefariouscriminal, even though they never had to prove said murder charges. That’sridiculous. By the end, “Deep Web” flirts with the bigger questions atplay here: who makes money on the drug war and would profit from shutting downSilk Road? And even if you don’t agree with what Ulbricht did online, would youreally like to have a government who goes to illegal ends to shut him down? “Deep Web” would have either worked better as a much tighterTV special about Ulbricht or a more detailed, elaborate film. Instead, it fallsinto a valley in between, feeling too unfocused to really offer much insightinto Ulbricht (if that’s even possible) while also missing out on essentialelements of the larger narrative that also includes polarizing figures likeJulian Assange and Edward Snowden. Narrated byKeanu Reeves, the vast majorityof “Deep Web” is disappointingly straightforward and factual:Then thishappened. Then that happened.Actual insight is too sparse in the film, andthe portrayal of DPR as a freedom fighter feels a bit thin. Winter speaksmostly to Greenberg and Ulbricht’s family when it would have actuallystrengthened his film to include more critics of Silk Road, Ulbricht and theDeep Web overall. Most of all, one gets the sense that Winter was trying to hita moving target. This is a story that’s still being told and an importantchapter of American history that’s still being written. Ultimately, despitesome reasonably strong filmmaking, “Deep Web” feels too much like a footnote. Advertisement