The first feature by co-writer/directorRaj Amit Kumarbegins by throwing the viewer into a seemingly random series of events, set inIndia and in the United States—Delhi and New York City to be specific. Kumar’sa pretty busy (I presume he’d prefer the term “dynamic”) cinematic storyteller.So between the multiple characters, fast-shifting settings (an artist’s studiowith a nude female painter stalking around it, the TKTS plaza at Times Square,a backyard barbecue, a changing room for a woman prepping for a wedding, and soon) and eye-opening action (why is the woman prepping for a wedding suddenlyplaying with that gun, depicted in quick cuts showing her brandishing it in avariety of ways, including, whoa!, putting it in her own mouth?), he builds upplenty of intrigue right away. At least one wants to figure out who thesecharacters are, and how their stories are connected. Advertisement Eventually who the characters are becomes clear, as doestheir lack of connection except by way of the concept so inelegantly putforward by the movie’s title. The New York-based story finds afundamentalist who’s come in from Pakistan and is assigned by sleeper ops tokidnap a Muslim cleric who preaches an anti-extremist perspective. In India, ayoung woman forced into an arranged marriage pines for her lesbian lover, theaforementioned nude artist, and takes radical action to be reunited with her, partof which includes turning the aforementioned gun on a male lover of the artist. These storylines are not just intercut with some showycorrespondences (a New York highway becomes a Delhi road in the flick of anedit) but are interspersed with flashbacks, fantasy sequences, and more.Dialogue is presented out of sync and used to push the visual action forwardin time. Kumar has a veryevidentcommand of a lot of filmmaking techniques. He’s clearly pretty passionate aboutthe stories he wants to tell. But as the film goes on, the stories become evermore…well, “far-fetched” isn’t a sufficient term to describe what they become.The kidnapping plotline in particular takes twists and turns that are extremelyoverbaked, and once the extremist has got his battered victim back in a cozybrownstone, and has got the cleric, his young wife, and their young son alltaped down to various household surface, the movie ventures into the realm ofpure grindhouse sadism. It’s borderline reprehensible, in spite of Kumar’s intentions.Illuminating the depradations of a self-styled jihadist is one thing; holdingthe viewer by the back of the head and shoving his face into a welter ofsimulated blood is another, and it’s not a strategy that’s likely to build alot of viewer goodwill. Similarly, the sad end of the Delhi plotline is ajailhouse scene in which a defied father gives tacit approval to something nopatriarch should ever permit is not presented as explicitly, but still has anemphasis one can only describe as morbid. Do such outrages happen in real life?Of course they do, and they’re awful, but their representation in this work isso willfully heavy handed that coherence of any kind—artistic, dramatic,ideological—finds no bearing. As accomplished and committed as most of the castis, one doesn’t so much find affinity with the characters they play as feel badthat they were compelled to enact such ugly movements.