While somefilmmakers desire to fill their authorship with resplendent narratives andpainstaking characters, directorNathan Silverwants what’s underneath,above, and in-between all that. In his own words from a guest post forFilmmaker Magazinein 2014: “The plots of my moviesdon’t matter - I wantwhat’s in the air…I can only makemovies about air, really.” Dependingon what you expect from a film, that’s either the declaration of a wild manwith a movie camera, or something that rings with the same nothingness as aZiploc bag filled with air from aKanye Westshow. Nonetheless, Silver’s latest film “Uncertain Terms” finds somesubstance within its ideology of evaporated ambitions, though there’s plenty of emptyspace in which the film is still able to limit itself. Advertisement Based on a storyco-written withChloe Domontand cinematographerCody Stokes, “Uncertain Terms” is the low-fiobservance of a person looking for a type of home in an atypical domesticscenario, a set-up that has intrigued Silver in previous 70-minute features “Exit Elena” (2012) and 2013’s “Soft in the Head.” In this tale, themisplaced focal character is Robbie (played byDavid Dahlbom, cinematographerof “Exit Elena”), who ventures tothe house belonging to his aunt Carla (played byCindy Silver, mother ofNathan), which is a shelter for pregnant teens. While serving as low-keyhandyman for the property, Robbie tries to clear his head of his recent maritaltrauma. His wife, Mona, cheated on him. Haunting him through a barrage of textsand voicemails, she desperately wants him back. While embroiled inthis angst, Robbie begins to particularly enjoy the warming company of Nina,one of the shelter’s guests who hasrelationship issues of her own. Her boyfriend Chase (Casey Drogin) is adirectionless dum-dum, who only confirms Nina’s uncertain future as to how she’ll take care of hernewborn, and with whose support. Robbie and Nina’s brief interactions, friendly butintimate, incites jealousy in fellow teen Jean (Tallie Medel), who showedinitial interest in Robbie despite his polite deflections. Though glacially paced, “Uncertain Terms” benefitsfrom its sense of stakes, in which it finds characters right before their livesare about to completely change—maybe Robbie and Nina will be able to do so together. Theshared emotional angst of a cheated husband doesn’tcompute equally with the encompassing stress of an unwanted teen pregnancy, butthat’s a hooking character flaw of self-righteousness within Dahlbom’sRobbie that makes him most interesting. Though he’strying to pull everything together, he’s hita peak of recklessness, projecting upon a young woman who has plenty of her ownpersonal business to deal with. In “UncertainTerms"' unique brand of bizarre,this is some finite poetry about that self-destructive period in the aftermathof a relationship’s implosion. Advertisement Silver’s filmmaking has always been quite the haven for naturalisticperformances, this time expressing the promise of female leads Menuez andMedel. What’s bothersome about “UncertainTerms” is how the other womenin the shelter are treated, especially with the story’sopenly economical sense about soaking in its environment. Aside from theaforementioned two, the other young women in the shelter are walkingback-stories more than they are characters, used for scenes of sharing theirunintended pregnancies more than glimpses of who they are as flesh-and-bloodbeings. The film’s admirable intentions to provide a non-taboo presentation ofpregnant teens without the protective quirk of 2007’s “Juno” or the tidy religiosity of 2014’s “GimmeShelter” are nearly undone byediting that takes away their personality. A lining issue in his authorship,Silver’s interests in the reflexes within intimate interaction areoften too stubborn to find truth beyond such reenactments of real life. Still, this film has a narrative feat that can’t gooverlooked, one that’s certainly better executed than the Bradley Cooper-Emma Stonepairing inCameron Crowe’s recent “Aloha.” Silver’s “UncertainTerms” is able to fully bondtwo characters with a vivid, kind-of inappropriate relationship that’shard to wrap one’s head around when first billowing, but becomes validated oncedenouement proclamations show it to be of sincere desperation. The gut-feelingpower within Robbie and Nina’s unique connection canbe felt in a scene in which he confides in her his perspective on falling inlove young; how you’ve got to grow together with someone and you grow yourself, andchange yourself to fit this other person. If that’staken away, it’s even harder to start over. It’s amoment that shows a distinct grasp of filmmaking mojo (even if concludes withSilver’s emblematic shrugging cynicism). It also declares that Silver’sperspective is not so much a definitive answer to truth in storytelling, but amiss-miss-hit tactic in which desires of precision are voided for the breathsthat will undoubtedly have more matter than than others. Contrary to Silver’sairy aspirations, it nudges towards the idea that film is more about what wecan take away from the atmospheres in which directors place us.