Another film about junkies? That question almost inevitablyfollows one’s learning the subject of Josh and Benny Safdie’s New York-setdrama “Heaven Knows What,” and its main implication is clear: heroin addictionis at once so limited and so overdone as a narrative premise that filmmakersapproaching it need to have something new to say, or to show. Unfortunately, the Safdies don’t. Their film is the latestin a long line of movies that seem to assume the milieu of addiction isjustification enough for its existence. The result is a work that—like awhole sub-species of French films of the recent decades—fetishizes its ownhyper-naturalistic visual style and performances (all but one by non-actors)while offering no original or striking insights into the world it portrays. Advertisement No doubt the film’s surface attractions and its coreweaknesses both owe to its origins. Reportedly, the Safdies were researching aproject in New York’s diamond district when they spotted a pretty young blondewho they assumed might be a Russian diamond worker. Turns out she was a heroinaddict from New Jersey namedArielle Holmeswho had a troubled romanticrelationship with another addict named Ilya. Fascinated by Holmes’ stories of her street life, theSafdies persuaded her to write an account of it, a manuscript that became thebasis for their screenplay (co-written byRonald Bronstein). With Holmesplaying Harley, a character who apparently differs from herself in name only,the filmmakers shot in the neighborhoods she frequented using people she knewas secondary characters and hidden cameras to disguise their presence (atechnique also employed inOren Moverman’s forthcoming “Time Out of Mind,”about a New York homeless man). The look, of course, is very close to that of a documentary,which raises the question: Why isn’t “Heaven Knows What” a documentary? Ifconveying the reality of junkie life was the main objective, that course mighthave been more productive. As in many other cases, turning real-life materialinto drama can produce an awkward hybrid: a film in which the reality isdiluted by fictionalization, while the fiction is rendered thin and sometimesclichéd due to being shackled to its real-life origins. So it is here. When we first see Harley, she’s in fullhyperactive mode, threatening suicide to the long-haired, plainly doped-up Ilya(Caleb Landry Jones), who’s far more interested in the public computer he’sstaring at. She’s so desperately in love that she wants to sacrifice her lifefor him. His groggy response: If you want to prove your love, go ahead and offyourself. One gets the feeling this pathetic little melodrama amongthe drug-addled has been having a long run. Soon enough, though, Harley makesgood on her morbid proposal, buying a razor at a bodega and cutting her wristin a park with Ilya looking on. Whisked to a hospital, she’s left with onlysome nasty-looking stitches as proof of her love. Advertisement For a while thereafter, thankfully, Ilya disappears from herlife and two other guys take his place. Skully (rapper Necro) is a burly dudein a baseball cap who offers to treat her well and help her out, though itseems like he might have other agendas as well. She, in any case, isn’tinterested in being courted with kind behavior and rebuffs him. Far more important is the relationship with Mike (BuddyDuress), who also seems to want to help her but is constantly exasperated byher neediness, unreliability and demands for both dope and credit. UnlikeSkully, he evidences no romantic feelings for Harley—though he plainlydespises Ilya, a point that becomes more important later in the story—but isnevertheless bound to her by their never-ending rounds of scoring, shooting upand finding places to crash. Though the protagonists here end up in hospitals repeatedly,there are no doctors, therapists or social workers as characters. Nor are thereparents, family members, non-junkie friends, police officers or similar. The filmkeeps its characters in a tightly circumscribed bubble of junkie-dom, andthat’s one thing that makes it feel a bit phony, less a probing, realisticview of a complex milieu than one that partakes of the junkies’ own gauzyself-involvement as well as previous fictions’ oblique romanticizing of them. Given the film’s relative weakness on the narrative level,its performances become all the more important, and here the news is largelygood. For a first-timer, Holmes is amazinglyassured and precise. Landry Jones’ mopey, narcissistic Ilya, meanwhile, issolid and convincing, though not as extraordinary as his turn inJohn Boorman’s“Queen and Country” earlier this year. The stand-out, though, isBuddy Duress’Mike. Though it’s clear the reputed “street legend” is not an experiencedactor, his work has a force and rough authenticity that make it edgilycompelling, his mannerisms and vocal intonations sometimes recalling the youngElliott Gould. A stand-out of another sort is the camerawork of Sean PriceWilliams. Using understated lighting, long lenses both outdoors and inclose-quartered interiors, and near-constant re-framings, this giftedcinematographer turns in a bravura performance that fully realizes thenaturalistic intent of the Safdies’ stylistic approach. That suchverité-like verisimilitude can’tsubstitute for dramatic truth is an obvious truism, but Willliams’ sharp workoffers its own elegant justifications. Advertisement