Leah Meyerhoffis a major new talent. Her “I Believe inUnicorns” is an accomplished coming-of-age tale that both calls back to thedozens of stories like it that we’ve seen and charts its own course. If itfalls victim to a bit too many college film student clichés, it’s easy toforgive Meyerhoff due to the great performance she draws from her talentedyoung star and what this film means for her bright future. Davina (Natalie Dyer) is a beautiful young girl who trainsher striking blue eyes on an older kid named Sterling (Peter Vack) and beginsher first rocky relationship. Having taken care of her disabled mother (playedby the writer/director’s real mother) and seeing little signs of life in her,she sees a vision of young love as an exit ramp to a better, more excitingplace. Davina is at that unique time of life in which childhood and impendingadulthood crash and blend. Davina is still into drawings, unicorns, Polaroids—defiantlygirly stuff. When her new beau asks her to meet him, she puts on a lovelydress. He rides a skateboard and has a studded leather jacket. They arepracticallySandra Deeand Danny Zuko. And Meyerhoff embraces her clichés and cinematicpredecessors, especially when composerSasha Gordon’s excellent work quiteliterally cribs from “Badlands”. Advertisement Davina and Sterling are people dying to get on with life.Bring on adulthood because adolescence with its sick mothers and abusivefathers has been awful. And so they race, head first, into the unknown world,turning a large portion of “I Believe in Unicorns” into a road movie. Meyerhoffexpertly recognizes that just because Davina and Sterlingwantto begrown-ups doesn’t mean that they are yet. Having sex doesn’t make you aninstant adult. And so they play games in convenience stores and get intochildish fights, which quickly become less childish as they realize there’s nogreener grass on the other side of the fence. Not knowing where you’re going inthis world can quickly go from liberating to boring, especially when you’re onthe journey with someone you don’t really know. Meyerhoff isn’t the only name to remember from “I Believe inUnicorns,” as the film simply wouldn’t work at all without the committed,fantastic performance of Natalie Dyer. She balances the innocence and desire ofher character in perfectly equal measures, sketching a person in that dangerouspart of life in which they are not a child and yet also not quite yet a woman.She holds every scene, adding emotional weight to clichés that would have beenpaper-thin without her work. “I Believe in Unicorns” sometimes gets a bit too Film SchoolProject and doesn’t quite fill out a feature film (it’s not even 80 minuteswith long credits on both sides) but it works on its own terms. Most of all, itis an introduction to two people I hope to see in the next festival line-up Ireceive: Leah Meyerhoff and Natalie Dyer.