At a timewhen every action-oriented film that comes along tries to pummel audiences intosubmission with frantically-told narratives and elaborate action sequences thatbegin by skirting the edge of plausibility before diving headlong into completelunacy, there is something innately appealing about a film like"Survivor," a smaller-scale international thriller that is not tryingto blow viewers away with over-the-top pyrotechnics every five minutes. The problem is that while it never lapsesinto complete cartoonishness, it never does much of anything else either, andpretty much plays like a film made for basic cable that is buoyed for a whileby a couple of relatively strong central performances before eventuallysuccumbing to terminal mediocrity in its silly final scenes. Advertisement KateAbbott (Milla Jovovich) is a highly-rated Foreign Service Officer who has justbeen appointed to the U.S. Embassy in London to help troubleshoot visaapplicants for suspected terrorists trying to get into the U.S. When one guycomes in all but waving red flags, her immediate supervisor (Robert Forster)pooh-poohs her suspicions and when she tries to investigate further, she runsafoul of both an officious British inspector (James D'Arcy) and the U.S.Ambassador (Angela Bassett). Of course, she is on to something after all and atop-notch assassin known only as The Watchmaker (Pierce Brosnan) is brought into take her out. Although he misses her, his efforts take out nearly all ofKaren's colleagues and, through a ridiculous chain of circumstances, leave herlooking responsible for their deaths. With the British cops, U.S. agents andthe relentless Watchmaker on her trail, Karen tries, with the limitedassistance of the only two colleagues she still trusts (Dylan McDermottandFrances de la Tour), to evade capture while trying to figure out the terroristsare trying to accomplish and stopping it in the presumed nick of time. As youcan probably surmise from just that brief plot recap, originality is notexactly one of the strong points of survivor—screenwriter Phillip Shelby hasessentially given viewers a mash-up of any number of movies ranging from"Saboteur" to "The Fugitive" to "Salt," to namejust a few potential inspirations, without throwing anything new into the mix.At first, there is the suggestion that the story might point up the irony ofthe security expert being stymied and her actions misinterpreted by the verysame devices (such as the omnipresent CCTV systems) and organizations that weresupposed to make everyone feel safer in the first place but that notion isquickly and decisively abandoned. (There is, however, a final title cardpraising U.S. security agencies for the number of potential terrorist attacksthey have prevented—an odd thing to mention considering the bumbling andeasily duped manner in which they are depicted in the story proper.) Beyondthat, exposition is doled out in raw and barely digestible chunks, the few plottwists on hand are tipped way too early to have any real effect and the finalscenes, in which the target and the true nature of the attack are revealed, aresilly instead of gripping. "Survivor"was directed byJames McTeigue, a filmmaker who can make stylish and enormouslyeffective works when he is given strong material (as he showedwith "V for Vendetta") and giant loads of gibberish when he isn't (ashe proved with the beyond-dire "The Raven"). Here, he lands somewherein the middle because while this film lacks the wild spectacle that a flashierfilmmaker with a bigger budget might have given it, the lack of such eye candyis a better fit with the lower-key material on display. And when he does turnthings up a notch (as in a multi-level staircase shootout between Jovovich andBrosnan), the results are effective. However, he never quite manages tomaintain the necessary levels of suspense, and, by the time the excitementshould be peaking in the final act, the film feels like it is treading water.(Part of this is undoubtedly the result of the number of stock shots andsecond-unit footage deployed to try to convince viewers that they are in aparticular place and time and not in Bulgaria.) Advertisement The bestthing about "Survivor" are the performances from Jovovich and Brosnanin the lead roles. Although a top action star through her appearances in the"Resident Evil" films, Jovovich correctly plays her role here not assome omnipotent super-babe but as a realistic person caught in an insanesituation and trying to use her brains to figure things out instead of simplykicking all available ass. (That said, she does get ample opportunities to showthat she can defend herself--perhaps a little too well for the averagegovernment analyst.) As the man alternately targeting and targeted by her,Pierce Brosnan is cooly effective as a ruthlessly efficient killer and thesight of the former James Bond deploying his own license to kill, this time formoney rather than for Queen and country, adds a certain frisson to theproceedings that simply would not have been there had the role been filled byan actor without that background. There are other good actors here but theyhave not been treated quite as well by the screenplay--Forster, D'Arcy and McDermottare more or less wasted and it is at times painful to watch the great AngelaBassett play a role that asks here to do the exact wrong thing in every singlescene. Neitherparticularly good nor particularly bad, "Survivor" is the kind offilm that one can safely put on the television while other stuff is going onwithout worry that important plot points will be missed along the way. Theingredients are there for a reasonably gripping good time but the excitement isstymied by a screenplay that clearly needed another pass or two in the hopes ofjazzing things up. The end result is a film as bland and uninspiring as itstitle. Unless you happen to be a Jovovich or Brosnan completist, there is noparticularly compelling reason to seek this one out