In a match between a supremely catastrophic Californiaearthquake and the former wrestling star turned movie action hero DwayneJohnson (a.k.a.The Rock, aptly enough here I guess, although he’s not thuslycredited), who are you going to bet on? For movie purposes, the latter, ofcourse. Since we’re all agreed on that, I suppose it spoils nothing to informyou that there’s almost nothing surprising about “San Andreas.” Kind of noteworthy, if not actually remarkable, then, is thatthe movie actually works as well as it does, offering up suspense set piecesthat are genuinely suspenseful despite one’s security that everyone in thetop-billed cast that we’re supposed to care about will be okay. The directionbyBrad Peytonis particularly effective during the brisk scenes of disaster,from the felling of Hoover Dam to the snapping of the Golden Gate Bridge. I’mnot sure whether it was the editing or my own willing suspension of disbeliefbut the CGI-manufactured scenes of mass destruction are among the mostrealistic in this mode I’ve ever seen. Advertisement Spectacles of disaster have been a staple of movies eversince they began, so I’m not one to complain about them, or to snicker at thesupposed irony of Hollywood so blithely exploiting a potential reality (for allI know, the data spouted by a seismologist played byPaul Giamattiin thefilm’s early scenes could be 100 percent true, and California is in factoverdue to tumble into the sea) for our entertainment value. The personal storyattached to this earthquake saga has Johnson’s Ray Gaines, an uber-competent(of course) helicopter rescue dude, saving both his estranged wife and their collegebound daughter from the tectonic destruction. Think “Earthquake” meets“Towering Inferno” meets “Die Hard,” but a lot more streamlined. Ray’s wife,Emma (Carla Gugino) has taken up with another fella, extremely rich architectDaniel (Ioan Gruffud), the latter of whom is escorting daughter Blake(Alexandra Daddario) to San Francisco. Plot logic dictates that one of thesecharacters turns out to be a weasel, and the one you expect is the weaselindeed, and to top it off he’s got a really bitchy sister too. While disastermovies of past eras let the viewer build up a nice head of disdain for theirweasely characters before suitably dispensing with them, “San Andreas” is bothtoo fleetly action-packed and too damn nice to provide many hisses. Instead, themovie compels Johnson and Gugino to play dodge-em with falling buildings viachopper, mediate some super-size potholes in a four-by-four, do some impromptusky-diving when there’s suddenly no viable airport runway to land a small planeon, and much, much more. In the meantime, her-father’s-daughter survivalistBlake, with two young British fellows who seem to have been outsourced from adiscardedRichard Curtisscript, navigates the city by the bay, which theearthquake has turned into a kind of anti-funhouse: moving sidewalks, fallingpower lines, and shooting flames all dodge their tracks. And this is evenbefore the tsunamis come into play. How will Ray and Emma find their girl, andwill finding their girl help them resolve the tragedy in their backstory thatdrove them apart to begin with? As I mentioned earlier, there are really nosurprises here. But the action is bracing, Johnson’s performance is solidand, within its extremely narrow parameters, entirely convincing, and Guginoand Daddario are both gritty and attractive. The result is a prettyexemplary popcorn movie.