Stéphane Lafleur’s great “Tu dors Nicole” is a remarkabletonal balancing act in such a way that it’s difficult to figure out how hepulls it off. It is both light as a feather and emotionally resonant. It isdefiantly episodic and yet has a cumulative power in its storytelling. It isboth airy and emotionally lived-in at the same time. Lafleur captures somethingabout those hazy days of early adulthood in which moments that feel like theyhave no importance suddenly do. It’s about that unique window of time in which our friendssometimes move at a different pace than we do, making decisions we don’tunderstand. It’s about those days in which we long to advance to something new withoutrealizing that there may be nowhere to go. And it’s funny, heartfelt andgorgeously shot. This is an excellent film. Advertisement Nicole (Julianne Côté) has graduated from college, lives ather absentee parents’ house (they’re away for the summer) and works a menialjob that she doesn’t particularly like. There’s not much going on in her smallQuebec hometown, as evidenced by Nicole’s casual observations of the neighborsaround her doing menial things like cleaning up dog poop and dusting lightfixtures. THIS is adulthood. No need to race too quickly to get to it. And soNicole kind of floats through life with best friend Véronique (CatherineSt-Laurent) until the two mentally stumble upon a plan to take a trip toIceland. Nicole just got a credit card, and it’s like everything is free,right? As they practice Icelandic, Nicole’s plan is derailed by thereturn of her brother Remi (Marc-André Grondin), who wants to use his parents’pad as a band practice location. His bassist is on the verge of fatherhood,which leads Remi to dire predictions about the future of the band, while healso hopes that their new drummer will end a line of replacements at that position.It doesn’t help that Véronique seems drawn to the newest band member. There’s afantastic series of scenes in which Véronique goes from Nicole’s side in onescene to talking to the band in another to singing with them. Nicole has onlyone real friend and they were going to run away together? What will this do to that plan? Lafleur has an amazing eye and voice when it comes to theeccentricities of smalltown life. The most memorable character in this quirkymilieu is Martin (played by Godefroy Reding and voiced by Alexis Lefebvre), a10-year-old who hit puberty early and sounds like a grown man, playfullyhitting on his former babysitter. Nicole and Véronique’s employers feel likecharacters of their own as well. But the film belongs to Nicole, even ifLafleur is careful not to overplay the “perspective piece” approach. Weregularly watch Nicole leave the frame and then cut to another scene with her, asif we’re watching her from afar without being asked to understand all of herthoughts and motives—a common problem of the coming-of-age drama. Advertisement About that visual style: Lafleur and cinematographer SaraMishara shot “Tu dors Nicole” in beautiful black-and-white, setting up visualcompositions that are both gorgeous and thematically resonant. The strikingimagery of “Tu dors Nicole” (Mishara crafts amazing imagery from the mundanesuch as a shot of Nicole in aisles of clothing or barely lit by the illuminationof a sewing machine) adds to the dreamlike nature of the piece. The summerafter college is a hazy time for most of us—putting away childish concernswithout fully understanding what it means to be an adult. After playingminiature golf, Nicole turns to Véronique and says, “This used to be morefun.” We can all relate. Mishara’s stunning cinematography and Lafleur’s directionwouldn’t matter without the lived-in, genuine performance from Côté. She istasked with a difficult role in that Nicole is more often a casual observer of theworld around her than someone who comments on it. And yet Côté is very carefulto not turn Nicole into a snarky misanthrope. She is more uncertain than derisive,which makes her relatable and likable. We want Nicole to find something thatmakes her happy, or something that makes her anything at all. Unlike so manycoming-of-age films, Lafleur offers no easy answers or pat clichés aboutearly-life crises. He merely gives us a character floating through a definitivesummer in her life. And then leaves her there, still floating towards anunknowable future.