By the bitter end of its eight-season run, HBO’s “Entourage”had twisted its own narrative to a degree that it was barely recognizable fromthe beginning of the series. When it started, “Entourage” was the story ofthree average guys and their decidedly not average best friend with themovie-star good looks, trying to make it in the cutthroat world of Hollywoodwith only their loyalty to each other and NYC roots to keep them above thespoiled fray. We could relate to Vinny, Eric, Johnny and Turtle. By the end,the boys of “Entourage” were men, and they were the exact kind of narcissiststhat the show felt like it mocked at the beginning. Success was the mostimportant thing in their lives, and the show became little more than a story ofa dream fulfilled, despite the occasional laugh. It wasn’t about the guy whowent to Hollywood and stayed himself, bro. It was about the guy who went toHollywood and slept with models, had all the new toys, won awards, etc., bro. Advertisement Four years after “Entourage” went off the air (although itfeels much longer), creatorDoug Ellinis back with the inevitable film versionof his show, continuing the same tonal problems of the last few seasons of the program only in a longer, bigger, more misogynist form. Much like the series, even in its lowestpoints, there are still a few laughs from the supporting cast, and Ellin pacesthe piece well (it doesn’t feel nearly as long as the neverending “Sex and theCity” movies), but “Entourage” mistakenly keeps its characters floating inrarefied air, giving us no way to relate to them or care about them. Vinny andhis buddies have become easier to correlate with the Kardashians than thedreamers they used to be. And that makes for a film that keeps its audience ata distance, never surprising them at all narratively and barely moving theneedle for its characters. It is fan fiction in film form. After ending a marriage that lasted only nine days with ahot person party in Ibiza (“Entourage” takes place in that dream movie world inwhich every extra in every scene from the people walking down thestreet to all the patrons of a restaurant could be a fashion model),Vinny Chase (Adrian Grenier) wants to get back in the movie game. He calls upAri (Jeremy Piven) and convinces him to re-join his team as the producer on hisnext flick, a futuristic take on the Stevenson classic, “Hyde.” One catch:Vinny wants to direct. Ellin’s script ignores most of the production process, immediatelyzipping us forward to days after filming has wrapped. Ari and his producingpartners, including Texan walking-stereotype financiers played by Billy BobThornton andHaley Joel Osment, still haven’t seen a cut of the film, whichVinny is clearly apprehensive about showing to anyone. Part of the problem isthat he needs more money on the already over-budget film to finishpost-production. Ari agrees to go to Texas to talk to the money men aboutgetting the cash, but Chase is going to have to get over his nerves and showthe movie to everybody soon. Advertisement Meanwhile, E (Kevin Connolly) is having a baby with Sloan(Emmanuelle Chriqui) even though the two aren’t together any more. Which meanshe gets to have sex with multiple people one day and go to Lamaze the next. Eand Sloan were always one of the weaker subplots of the HBO show and nothinghas changed here. In better news, Johnny Drama (Kevin Dillon) gets to steal afew scenes with a solid arc about his “baby bro”’s movie being the one thatfinally gives him a break. Finally, Turtle (Jerry Ferrara), who seems to havemade a million dollars for every pound he’s lost, which is quite a few, almostliterally runs intoRonda Rousey, and tries to start a relationship with her. The VERY little tension of “Entourage” comes when the son ofChase’s main financier, played with smarm by Osment, reports back that he hatesthe cut of “Hyde” that he’s seen, especially the four scenes that includeJohnny Drama. Will Vinny cut out his brother and betray his vision to get themovie done? Have you seen the show? At the end of HBO’s “Entourage,” the characters were wildlysuccessful, rich and happy. Guess what? They still are! Rather than take anychances, Ellin barely wrote a plot for the “Entourage” movie, using his timeinstead to call in celebrity cameos and think of the prettiest locations inwhich to shoot them. Most of the dialogue is forced and unnatural, especiallyin the Connolly/Chriqui and Ferrara/Rousey subplots, but that’s because itdoesn’t matter what people say in the world of “Entourage.” All that matters iswho they party with, who they sleep with, and how much money they make. And thefilm suffers greatly from a plague of TV-to-film adaptations in that it getsstrikingly repetitive given that the people behind it are used to writing30-minutes narratives and spin their wheels when they try to go feature-length.Without Piven and Dillon to keep it entertaining, it would be absolutelydreadful. “Entourage” ended in such a way that I don’t think evendiehard fans of the HBO show were overly concerned about Vinny and the boys.There were no loose ends to tie up. And, in that sense, “Entourage” feels likeanother victory lap for characters who had already won the race of life.Instead of challenging his characters or giving them something new to do, Ellinjust high fives them on the way to the winner’s circle.