"TheDawn Patrol" is a stirring anti-war drama about the futility of battle setamong a squadron of fighter pilots during World War I that has been done acouple of times—the 1930 version was directed by the greatHoward Hawksandfeatured Douglas Fairbanks Jr. and Richard Barthelmass in the leads while the1938 remake was helmed by Edmund Goulding and included a cast led by ErrolFlynn, Basil Rathbone andDavid Niven. Although the 1938 version is betterknown, both takes are interesting (the Hawks version allows one to see himplaying with ideas that he would come back to again throughout his career). Sadly, the similarly titled "DawnPatrol" is an odious stew of murder, revenge, casual racism and overtmisogyny that is all the worse because of its apparent celebration of thoseingredients. Advertisement ScottEastwood, last seen showing his pecs in "The Longest Ride," stars asa Marine named John. As the story opens, he is being marched across adesert at gunpoint while telling his attacker the story of how he wound up inthis particular position. In the summer of 2008, he was an ordinary surf bumcontent to ride the waves off of Venice Beach with his brother, surfing ace Ben(Chris Brochu), and dad Trick (Jeff Fahey) while fighting off the Mexicans whodare to intrude their turf. Tensions are exacerbated when Ben'sex-girlfriend, Donna (Kim Matula), takes up with Miguel (Gabriel DeSanti), andhe responds by drunkenly grabbing her away from Miguel and carting her down tothe shoreline for what begins as a sexual assault and ends with a marriageproposal, while John smacks around Miguel a couple of times in the most low-keyand apologetic manner possible. Sure, this might leave you to think that Benis a drunken jerk with rage issues but you would be wrong—he just wants tosurf without having to deal with the surferazzi (yes, this is a term used inthe film) or his pothead mother (Rita Wilson) who want to exploit his talentsfor money. Alas, not everyone is on his level of enlightenmentbecause a couple of days later, he is found murdered on the beach. John isconvinced that Miguel is responsible for the killing—he even saw the guy's carin the area just before finding the body—but when the police are unable toprove it or to even come up with his last name, John's grieving parents essentiallydemand that he "man up" and take matters into his own hands.After putting up what barely qualifiesas token resistance, he goes about doing just that and, in news that will shockfew of you, it all goes sideways from there. "DawnPatrol" is so rotten in so many ways that there is a temptation to look atit at first as some kind of demented deadpan spoof of films that celebrategrotesque macho codes above all else, and it is only with a gradual sense ofhorror that it becomes apparent that not only are we meant to take it seriouslybut that it thinks that it is saying something profound. The screenplay byRachel Long&Brian Pittmanis nothing more than a bunchof stupid incidents that make little sense, lead to a pathetically obvioussurprise revelation and are presented via a flashback frame that is borderlinetorturous at times without adding anything of value to the proceedings.(Suffice it to say, directorDaniel PetrieJr. fails to lend the material thesort of élan or quiet dignity that hebrought to such previous efforts as "Toy Soldiers" and "In theArmy Now.") Advertisement The casual racism and sexism on display isoftentimes appalling, especially since the attitude it displays towards themsuggests at least a tacit endorsement. (The characterization of Donna as avapid and frequently topless tramp who exists solely as a sexual receptacle isparticularly gruesome, all the more so considering that the screenplay wasco-written by a woman.) There is not a single character in it that any sensibleperson would want to spend even the slightest amount of time with and none ofthe actors are able to make them into anything either. (Eastwood basically doesthe same thing he did in "The Longest Ride"—stare vacantly whileshirtless—and his performance is the highlight.) Look, ifyou want to see a film that serves as a cautionary tale about how thesingle-minded desire for revenge can have unexpected repercussions for everyoneinvolved and utilizes smart writing, whip-smart direction, strong performancesand a nice sense of irony, I have the perfect movie for you. It is "WildTales," the jaw-dropping Argentinian black comedy consisting of severalvignettes involving people trying to get the best of those who have done themwrong. By comparison, "Dawn Patrol" should prove to be as welcome at the multiplex aswashed-up medical waste is to a day at the beach.