For its first half-hour, “We Are Still Here” might give theimpression that it’s one of those new-fangled “subtle” independent horrormovies. You know, the kind that depends more on “mood” and “atmosphere” than onGuignol scares and shocks to reach its viewers. All of which, or, okay, severalof which, are just fine. I guess. But nuance has its limits. So I’m glad toreport that the subtlety of this movie’s first third is in fact asort of feint. Once the viewer finds him or herself comfortable with the ideathat it’s going for mildly-spine-tingling rather than gut-punching andeyeball-violating, all holy hell breaks loose. Which in this case turns out tobe a pretty hellishly good thing. Advertisement The film is co-written and directed by first-time featuremaker Ted Geoghegen. (Full disclosure: Mr. G. has a day job as a New-York-basedmovie publicist, and I’ve had friendly and rewarding exchanges with him in thatcontext.) It opens in spare, sober style, with picturesque shots of snowydales, quaint edifices, and finally a lightly-dusted country road with a cardriving over the pavement. The cars occupants are Paul and Anne (AndrewSensenig andBarbara Crampton, the latter of “Re-Animator” and “From Beyond”fame), a middle-aged couple clearly troubled by something. They’re mourning, itturns out, the loss of a son, and as they settle in to their new country home,a place they hope will bring healing, Paul is disturbed by Anne’s insistencethat she feels their son’s presence in the new place. Disquiet follows disquiet: a buttoned-up but bluff localold-timer, played byMonte Markham, shows up uninvited and lavishes tales ofthe house’s grisly past to Paul and Anne. Beside themselves, Paul and Anneinvite their eccentric pals Jacob and May (Larry FessendenandLisa Marie),latter-day hippies with an interest in the occult, to come check the situation.In the meantime, Markham’s gone back to town to confer with his neighbors onhow best to deal with a wrinkle in a situation that the whole burg seems tohave set up to make supernatural stooges out of Paul and Anne. Long storyshort: their son is present in the house. But so are a lot of other extremelyunfriendly beings. It’s around this point, beginning maybe with a highlysurprising heard-but-not-seen shotgun blast, that the movie starts getting goodand nasty and very bloody. The presence of Barbara Crampton should have tippedme off right away: given the amount of spatter she’s been obliged to contendwith in most of her most celebrated movie roles, it would make little sense toplace her in a relatively bloodless horror movie. And the whole trope of badthings lurking behind the brick and around the vicinity of a basement’s boileris a favorite ofLucio Fulci, the Italian horror director justly famed for hisscenes of offal-spewing. The gore effects of “We Are Still Here” have somemore, um, finesse than Fulci’s magnificently crude images, but that doesn’tmake them any less effective. This is in part because Geoghegen is a master ofboth the suspenseful buildup and thejust-when-you-think-the-bloodletting-is-over-here-comes-another-thrust-and-or-slasheffect. The scares and the shocks work very well with the twists of the plot,which are within the boundaries of conventional genre fare but are pulled offwith panache and some not-displeasing variation. Also exceptional is the use ofa dirty white canvas contractor’s tarp hanging off a wall in the grand finale,which really puts the expected exploded organic matter that hits it into boldrelief. More than a mere homage, “We Are Still Here” is the kind of movie youwish you could take back in time with you and project in your favorite42ndStreet grindhouse.Advertisement