On thesurface, the new slavery drama "Freedom" may look like anexceptionally blatant attempt to cash in on the critical and commercial successof "12 Years a Slave" but the actual film turns out to be a whole lotstranger than that. In fact, not only does it juggle two distinct story linesthat follow a family of escaped slaves trying to get to freedom and how a slaveship captain went on to write one of the key songs of the abolitionist movementnearly a century earlier, it tries to do it in the form of a near-musical inwhich the characters are often found singing the notable hymns and spiritualsof the time. It sounds interesting in theory, I concede, but it is much less soin practice because this is one of those movies that is as dull as it iswell-meaning and man, is it ever well-meaning. Advertisement The mainstory begins in Virginia in 1856 as Samuel Woodward (Cuba Gooding Jr.) and hisfamily escape from the dreaded Monroe Plantation in the hopes of connectingwith the Underground Railroad and making their way to ultimate freedom inCanada with the help of Quaker activist Thomas Garrett (Michael Goodwin). Fortheir owner, Jefferson Monroe (David Rasche), this will not stand ("Noslave has ever escaped from my plantation!") and he calls in notoriousslave hunter Plimpton (William Sadler) to bring them back alive, especiallySamuel's wife, Vanessa (Sharon Leal). Plimpton has long since left the businessout of certain moral trepidations but agrees to go in pursuit of them. Understandablyembittered from a life of unimaginable hardship, Samuel cannot even bringhimself to sing with the others in his group but his mother (Phyllis Bash)informs him that "one day, you will sing 'Amazing Grace'" andrecounts the story of the song's composer,John Newton(Bernard Forcher), in aseries of flashbacks. Newton was a ship's captain and amateur songwriter whowas put in charge of the first slave shipment from Africa to Charleston, amongthem a young boy who would grow up to be Samuel's great-grandfather. During therough passage, Newton's eyes became opened to the cruelties of the trade andbefore long, he would undergo a religious conversion, become a devoutabolitionist and write the song that would prove to be his most lasting legacy. Byattempting to weave these two disparate narrative threads together,"Freedom" does demonstrate some ambition but ambition can only take amovie so far if the filmmakers are unable to make them pay off in a satisfyingway and that is the problem here. The screenplay byTimothy A. Cheyis kind of a mess in the way that the natural tension of thestory involving Samuel's family and their flight to freedom is constantly beinginterrupted by the Newton narrative.Perhaps even more troubling is his insistence on stressing the religious faithof the more noble characters and the suggestion that the slaves be open to thenotion of forgiving their tormentors—the former conveniently overlooks thefact that plenty of slave owners back then were of a devout nature as well andthe latter notion requires far more exploration and debate than it is givenhere. Advertisement Themusical aspect of the film is a mixed bag as well. On the one hand, the songsheard—including "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot," "Sometimes I FeelLike a Motherless Child" and "Hard Times"—are among the mostpowerful tunes ever written and the performances heard here are quite nice. Onthe other hand, there are so many songs being sung by the characters, even whenlogic would seem to suggest that silence might be the wiser option, that theyeventually become distracting—either debuting directorPeter Cousens(awell-known musical theatre performer in his native Australia) should have made the whole thing a flat-out musical (a risky move but one that couldhave paid off beautifully in the right hands) or stripped a few out to keepthings moving. (One sequence that could have easily disappeared is a strangesegment where the family is aided by a acting troupe whose head (Terrence Mann)leads them all in a singalong that comes mighty close to suggesting that jazzwas invented by some white guy decades before its previously held historicalbeginnings.) Beyondthat, Cousens handles the material in an utterly nondescript matter—though hedoes betray a certain stiffness whenever he has to stage a scene involving morethan a couple of people. For the most part, the actors go about their work inmuch the same way in that they don't do anything especially awful but neverquite find a way to connect with the material in a meaningful way either. (Theonly one that does is William Sadler, whose work as the newly conscientiousslave hunter shows a degree of nuance that the film as a whole never seems toknow how to handle.) Probably the most unassailable aspect to the film is thecinematography byDean Cundey("Halloween," "Who Framed RogerRabbit?" and "Jurassic Park" to name just a few of his credits),whose work lends an additional luster to what was presumably a project on thelower end of the budget scale. "Freedom"has clearly been made with the best of intentions but intentions do not countfor much if the film itself doesn't amount to much. It spends so much timetrying to edify viewers that it forgets to give them anything of real emotionalinterest. The end result is like a history lesson delivered by ateacher with absolutely no presentation skills to speak off—the story may besound and important but it has been conveyed in such a passionless and off-keymanner that most people will find themselves tuning the whole thing out longbefore the conclusion. Advertisement