Anchored by an extraordinary performance from actress AliciaVikander,James Kent’s “Testament of Youth” bears comparison to many othersuperbly mounted costume dramas backed by the BBC, but this one has a specialdistinction: it chronicles the horrors that World War I inflicted on ageneration of young English people from a woman’s perspective. Though the war was followed by a slew of books about it, VeraBrittain’s account of her own experiences has been regarded as unique. It didnot appear in the war’s immediate aftermath, partly because the aspiring writerdidn’t know how to deal with her memories. She first tried writing a novel,which she shelved as a failure, a judgment she also made against a subsequentattempt to make a book by fictionalizing journals and letters. It was onlylater, inspired by filmmaker John Grierson’s coining of the term “documentary,”that she decided to craft a nonfiction account of her experiences, which becamean instant bestseller upon its publication in 1933. (The book was previouslyfilmed as a BBC television series in 1979; it was followed by two sequels,“Testament of Friendship” and “Testament of Experience,” which have not beenfilmed.) Advertisement In some ways, making a TV series out of Brittain’s 661-pagememoir, which covers her life from childhood to 1925, has an obvious logic. Inturning the material into a two-hour movie, screenwriterJuliette Towhidiunderstandably elected to sacrifice some of the book’s expansiveness byfocusing on events leading up to the war and the war itself, giving only aglimpse of Brittain’s activities as an ardent pacifist afterwards. Following a brief prologue that shows Vera (Vikander)stunned at the news of the armistice in 1918, the story flashes back to thehalcyon, unsuspecting days prior to war’s outbreak more than four yearsearlier. Here, Vera’s enjoying an impromptu rural swim with her beloved brotherEdward (Taron Egerton) and their friend Victor (Colin Morgan). Though these three are all high-spirited people enjoying thepleasures of youth, Vera’s life is anything but becalmed. Her desire to attenduniversity to gain an education that will allow her to pursue a career as aprofessional writer is staunchly opposed by her father (Dominic West) andmother (Emily Watson), who believe that women have no reason to seek advancedschooling much less work outside the home. Vera is fiercely determined, though,and receives some crucial support from Edward. Her brother also affects her fate in introducing her to aschoolmate of his, Roland Leighton (Kit Harrington). Though Vera had decidednot to let romantic attachments arise lest they interfere with her careergoals, she feels an immediate chemistry with the dreamily handsome Roland, whowrites poetry and admires her independence. When she achieves her goal of admission to Oxford and goesup to begin her studies, it’s like a dream has come true, but the nightmare ofwar intervenes with cruel alacrity. Amidst all the patriotic fervor and thebelief that the conflict will be glorious and short-lived, most young menhaven’t the slightest hesitation about enlisting, and the recruits soon includeEdward, Victor and Roland. The latter’s departure is particularly wrenching forVera as the two have fallen in love and will become engaged. Advertisement Though her battle to enter university was hard-won, Veraalso feels the call of duty and gives up her studies to become a nurse. She isfirst stationed in London, where she has to overcome the suspicions of someagainst her privileged background. Then she goes off to the battlefront inFrance, where such petty concerns are instantly forgotten amid the chaos andchallenges of tending to a constant influx of the horribly maimed and dying. From “The Big Parade” to “Paths of Glory,” movies aboutWorld War I have focused on the particularly hellish conditions faced by menengaged in industrial-scale trench warfare. Seeing the consequences of thatdestruction from a nurse’s point of view is no less sobering. Vera must dealwith the screams and pleas of men who have suffered the most gruesome injuries,and hurried amputations are the rule. (The film used veterans of theAfghanistan war, supplied by an agency called Amputees in Action.) Reflecting the widespread devastation that the war visitedon a generation of Europeans, all of Vera’s closest male contemporaries andintimates suffer the terrible depredations of combat and illness. Yet she isjust as moved by her ministrations to a dying German soldier, whose finalagonies, she wrote later, were a crucial factor in leading her to be an antiwaractivist for the rest of her life. An intimate epic, “Testament of Youth” has great historicalsweep yet remains focused on the human vicissitudes experienced by Vera and hercircle. Making his feature debut after work in television and documentaries,director James Kent proves exceptionally skilled in supplying the film with ahauntingly poetic visual sense and eliciting fine, exacting performances fromhis able cast. While all of the actors’ work deserves commendation, specialpraise must be given toAlicia Vikander, a Swedish actress who does an amazing jobconveying one young Englishwoman’s strength, resilience, intelligence andvulnerability. Considering the horrors and tragedies the war rained on VeraBrittain, it’s perhaps surprising she survived with her mind intact. YetVikanker’s performance clearly suggests the inner resources and tremendousdetermination that allowed her not only to pull through, but also to write anenduring testament to those who suffered and died. Advertisement