In his first film as writer-director-star since 2002’s“Assassination Tango,”Robert Duvalldelivers a complex, ambitious genre piecethat combines family drama and murder mystery, set in the south Texas ranchcountry. While the mix doesn’t always cohere, the film boasts moments andscenes that rank with Duvall’s best work. The tale begins with a scene so darkly lit and rapidlystaged that it’s hard to tell exactly what’s happening. But the gist soonbecomes clear: Rancher Scott Briggs (Duvall) catches his youngest son engagedin sexual activity with another young man and throws both of them out into thedark, banishing his boy from his life with curses and furious urgings that heread the Bible. Advertisement Fifteen years later, Briggs is the same cussed sonuvabitchbut things are happening on two fronts that signal change in his settled life.For one thing, a Texas Ranger named Samantha Payne (Luciana Duvall, thefilmmaker’s real-life wife) is moving to reopen the case of the boy that Briggscaught with his son, who disappeared that same night. For another, the septuagenarian has decided it’s time toplan his estate, and that involves calling home the black sheep son he so unceremoniouslyran off a decade and a half before. Ben Briggs (James Franco) returns to theranch looking as uncomfortable to see his father as the old man is to greethim. Years of suspicion, anger and hostility on both sides mean these two willhave no easy time becoming reacquainted, much less reconciled. Ben gets a less frosty welcome from others on the ranch.Older brother KC (Josh Hartnett) has adopted his dad’s profession and lifestyleand pleased the old man by having a family of his own; he seems to have notrouble with his Ben’s sexuality that a little playful teasing won’t resolve.And Ben shows real pleasure at reencountering Maria (Angie Cepeda), a Mexicanhouse worker who’s grown up with the family. Duvall does a good job evoking the spaces, rituals andcharacters of Briggs’ rough-hewn part of the country, and in suggesting howthese have formed the paterfamilias’ split character. On the one hand, Scott isa staunch traditionalist who follows the Bible and no doubt considers himself alaw-and-order conservative. On the other hand, he’s got enough of the Wild Westin him to take the law into his own hands when it suits him. The latter tendency leads him to fire on illegal immigrantstrying to enter the U.S. on his land. It also prompts him to do something rashwhen he learns that the female Texas Ranger is reopening a case that he wouldprefer see forgotten: He contacts a corrupt cop he knows (Jim Parrack) and asksthat he makes sure Payne is stopped. Once the film’s story gets rolling, it’s clear we’re in fora bumpy ride in some ways that were intended and others that were not. Mostsignificantly, the tale’s two main plot strands—the murder investigation andthe tortuous family reunion—unfurl rather awkwardly at times and intersectwith each other unconvincingly. There are plot holes that call attention tothemselves, as well as some missed dramatic opportunities—especiallyconcerning the characters played by Hartnett and Cepeda—that contribute tothe story’s impression of hasty, unfinished contrivance. Advertisement At the same time, Duvall is such a master actor that thevehicle he’s created for himself works fascinatingly as such. Scott Briggs is amulti-dimensional character who’s in the process of changing as he contemplateshis death. Can he come to terms with his demons, or will he add news sins tothe old ones as he tries? In almost every scene where his character appears,Duvall adds nuances and details that make the man both dynamic and unsettling,which results in a number of dramatic passages that are surprisingly powerful. He does a good job with the other actors too, but thestand-out here is Franco, who adds another item to his Queer Studies portfoliobut does so in a way that avoids cliché and obviousness in favor of wit,strength and subtlety. The relationship between rancher dad and gay son is notonly at the emotional heart of “Wild Horses,” it’s also the key to the film’sthoughtful, humane thematic gist, and the work of two fine actors helps makethat difficult conjunction a believable and memorable one.