The title “Hungry Hearts” is redolent of longing, and ofcourse ofBruce Springsteen, who wrote a similarly-titled song years ago (theobject organ was singular, not plural), offered it to The Ramones, got turneddown, and made it into a chart hit for himself instead. Catchy tune. That thismovie should use a variation on its title strikes me as false advertising. Abetter name for this movie would maybe be “The Ghastly Ones.” Directed bySaverio Costanzo, the movie operates at a muchhigher level of craft than the Andy Milligan cheapie horror picture from whichI lifted my suggested title. But it is an equally painful cinematic experience,and it is painful in a completely unrewarding way. It is earnest and torturedand pointless, in a very self-serious suffer-for/with-art fashion. It openswith its lead characters Jude (Adam Driver) and Mina (Alba Rohrwacher) stuck inthe bathroom of a Chinese restaurant together. Themeet-cute-in-the-era-of-“Girls” dialogue is de rigueur icky/frank, with Judeapologizing for the unpleasant odor of his recent deposit to Mina prior totheir rescue. Their awkward shared moment over, they fall into bed with eachother, she discovers she’s pregnant, the couple rush to be wed, and at theirConey Island wedding reception scene, the viewer is treated to a shot of a deaddeer on the boardwalk outside their hipster-chintzy celebration venue. Symbolism,people. Advertisement Because Mina and Jude then move into a dreary walk-up on theUpper West Side of Manhattan, just a few blocks from the Dakota, some folkswho’ve written about this film have likened it to “Rosemary’s Baby.” This isoff-base for several reasons, not the least of which is that you kind of likepoor Rosemary in that movie. No, what “Hungry Hearts” most resembles is anightmare enactment of “Knocked Up”: a couple that barely knows each otherdecide to embark on child-rearing together. Mina’s eccentricities in thesematters are hinted at when she enthusiastically informs Jude that a psychic hasdeemed their yet-to-be-born baby an “indigo child” (it’s kinda like when apsychic tells you, a person who has already been born, that you have a “blue”aura). Seems harmless enough. Only once the baby’s born, Mina puts it on aweird vegan regimen. Jude doesn’t have the intestinal fortitude to resist thisnonsense with any conviction, so he starts taking the kid to a church where hesurreptitiously slips him (the kid is never referred to by name) some ham (no,I’m not making this up). Mina retaliates by force-feeding the child some kindof anti-nutrient oil. At this point, you may look at your watch. Imagine yoursurprise when you learn there’s still about an hour’s worth of movie still tocome.