The most heartening surprise about directorBill Pohlad’s“Love and Mercy” is also to my mind a pretty improbable one. That is, that it’ssuch a good and at times better than good movie. The rise and fall and rise andfall and rise of genius musician Brian Wilson, a life story that disprovesFitzgerald’s adage about there being no second acts in America in what seems likethe most perverse way imaginable, looks on paper to be too sprawling, toochaotic, to be distilled into a coherent, never mind compelling, cinematicnarrative of conventional length. Advertisement But longtime producer Pohlad (“Brokeback Mountain,” “12Years A Slave”), working from a daringscript byOren Movermanand Michael Alan Lerner, and using two first-rateactors to play Wilson at two turning points in his life, lavishes his materialwith love, attention to detail, and empathetic imagination. The result is astory that’s hair-raisingly watchable and frequently moving, regardless of whatyou believe you might already know of Wilson’s life. The movie shuttles back and forth between two distinctperiods. In the mid ‘60s,Paul Dano’s Wilson is the baby-facedmusical genius of the Beach Boys who’s burning out on the road life. He’s gotthis amazing music in his head, and he manages to get quite a bit of it out,despite the resentful sniping of his abusive ex-manager father, the hostilityof at least one bandmate who doesn’t get why Brian isn’t writing more hits, andan increasingly fragile psychic state that is not helped by an exposure to LSD.Cusack plays the Wilson of the late '80s, supposedly brought back from acomplete psychotic break by psychological miracle worker Dr. Eugene Landy, whobecame such a part of Wilson’s life that he presumed to make himself a partnerin the creation of Wilson’s music.John Cusack’s Wilson wanders desultorilyinto a Cadillac dealership (although we soon see he’s got a bodyguard trailinghim, and a mini-entourage trailing the bodyguard), charms attractive youngsalesperson Melinda (Elizabeth Banks), who at first has no idea who the sweetlyeccentric fellow is. After telling her he wants the car in which they’ve stolena few precious moments removed from the outside world, he scrawls on herbusiness card and leaves it on the steering wheel of the car. The words he’swritten are “Lonely/Frightened/Scared.” Landy, played with terrifying intensity and smarm by PaulGiamatti, has by this point in time morphed from someone in service of Wilsonto a malignant Svengali. His monstrous manipulations are bad enough inisolation, but when intercut with scenes of the younger Wilson shrinking at thedisapprobation of the father—who beat him to deafness in one ear, but from whom Brian still craves approval—or thecousin/bandmate who hectors him over jokey song lyrics and musical direction,they are genuinely heart-rending and angering. The movie creates a rathereffective suspense story: as Melinda gets closer and closer to Brian, underLandy’s paranoid gaze, one wonders just how much fortitude Mr. Wilson’s newlove interest has, and if she has that fortitude, can she get what she needs todeliver Brian from what he describes as his “hell.” It gets pretty tense. Meanwhile, back in the ‘60s, Pohlad and Dano and a host of excellent supporting players simulate the creation of such ground-breaking pop works asPet Soundsand “Good Vibrations.” Usually fictionalized scenes of music-making are as convincing as cinematic depictions of painters painting (that is, not at all), so the very compelling scenes in which young Brian corrals the crack L.A. session players known as “The Wrecking Crew” into accepting and then conjuring his sometimes eccentric musical visions feel almost miraculous. And Banks, who brings equal notes of beauty-queen sunniness and Girl Scout rectitude to her portrayal of Melinda (who did, spoiler alert, become Mrs. Wilson after the events depicted in this film) has an interesting chemistry with the haltingly charming and sometimes tragically wrung-out Cusack. Advertisement The movie isn’t perfect: the hairpiece Giamatti sports throughout is so unconvincing that the filmmakers ought to have found away to make a joke of it. But even when Pohlad puts a foot wrong, he does so in an interesting way. This isn’t the kind of movie in which you expect to find a resonating allusion to “2001: A Space Odyssey,” and yet there one is. And while I have to say it didn’t quite work for me, I’ve got to give Pohlad credit for nerve. In any event, there’s more than enough of real value in the movie in spite of that. Not just its content, but its bedrock belief in people, in spite of all the awful things people can do. This philosophy is also a big part of Wilson’s music, a point that’s brought home as the end titles roll.