As I tried to make clear in my review of “Kurt Cobain: Montage of Heck,” andRoger Ebertstated over and over again, it’s not what amovie is about, it’s how it is about it. That film took a deep, archivalapproach to Cobain’s life, using home movies as a window into the trajectory ofan artist. While one can debate the quality of Nirvana’s music or importance ofCobain’s legacy, that’s not truly relevant to how successful the filmmaking isor not. I bring this up because “Soaked in Bleach,” the second Cobaindocumentary of the year, albeit with a drastically different focus, conveys ahot-button topic about which people feel very strongly. And yet analysis ofBenjamin Statler’s film shouldn’t really hinge on whether or not you believeCourtney LovekilledKurt Cobain. (I do not, for the record). It comes down tofilmmaking. And this is a bad film, filled with awkward reenactments, poorlydesigned graphics, scripted interview segments, ominous music and enoughjumping to conclusions that I’m surprised someone didn’t throw out their back. Advertisement The thrust of “Soaked in Bleach” is upfront and simple—the SeattlePolice Department didn’t investigate the death of Kurt Cobain properly andthere was enough suspicious behavior before Cobain’s body was found and enoughinconsistencies in the death scene that further investigation is warranted. Mostof the film comes from recordings provided by investigator Tom Grant, whoserves as the film’s main interview subject as well. Grant was hired in thedays before Cobain’s body was found by Courtney Love and he’s notorious forclaiming that he was at Cobain’s house the day before his body was found withfriend Dylan Carlson, and neither looked in the greenhouse to find the leadsinger. Grant definitely has an interesting story to tell, and his audiorecordings of conversations with Love reveal odd behavior on her part beforeher husband’s suicide. However, odd behavior on the part of junkies is notuncommon. Much of “Soaked in Bleach” consists of reenactments ofStatler and Grant’s version of events, often accompanied by audio recordings ofthe real Love, Grant, etc. Character actorDaniel Roebuckplays Grant to SarahScott’s Courtney Love and these scenes play like a bad true crime series on IDDiscovery (shows with names like "Deadly Women" or "Unusual Suspects"). Love is always half-naked, doing drugs—the film is a blatant smearcampaign from scene one and would have been much stronger without the bad tastethat leaves—and every meeting is in a dark, smoky room while she wears anightie. It’s a filmmaking technique that constantly sabotages any realisticarguments that the film could make by virtue of exaggeration and inconsistency. About those inconsistencies—like a conspiracy theorist who has had a few too many at a bar, Statler and Grant are constantlyleaping over logic to get to their conclusions. They easily dismiss Nirvana’slyrics as having no bearing at all on the theory that Cobain was depressed butthey value the fact that he never mentioned suicide to old hometown friends. Theystage a major scene in which Carlson is supposed to talk to Grant but choosesto shoot up with Love first as evidence of a conspiracy between the two insteadof just, you know, addiction. And they miss the biggest aspect of the Cobaindeath—the investigation could have been incompetent AND Kurt Cobain could havekilled himself. Both things can be true. But “Soaked in Bleach” takes theapproach that the failure of the Seattle PD to process pictures is one of thegreatest proofs that Cobain didn’t kill himself. Advertisement Again, it’s not about the conclusions of “Soaked in Bleach”but how they’re reached and presented. Statler does his subject and his leadingman in Grant a disservice through exaggerated filmmaking—every interviewsubject is shot in low light on a stormy night, for example. A thoroughdocumentary would present both sides and would do so without such demonizingand cartoonish reenactments of what the filmmaker believes is the truth. Bygoing to such extremes, Statler sabotages his own purpose. He wants to make afilm about what really happened, but none of it looks or sounds real.