The traditional logic is that an action movie is only asgood as its villain. This is especially true in the case of an action movie inwhich the hero is little more than the strong, silent type. The protagonist of"Redeemer" is just such a type. At one point, a character notes thathe hasn't heard the hero say more than 10 words the entire time that he's knownhim, which, admittedly, has only been a couple of days at that point. It's stillan accurate observation, though. The hero, who has a name but is primarily known incriminal circles as the Redeemer (Marko Zaror), doesn't say much, and what he does say usually amounts to threats tingedwith religious import. "Get on your knees, and pray for forgiveness,"he'll say when he encounters a group of bad guys. They don't, of course, so theRedeemer proceeds to fight them. It usually results in the deaths of thebaddies in increasingly gruesome ways—by knife through a man's hand and intohis back, by hook in a crook's mouth, by motorboat propeller in a henchman'sface. Advertisement This is the Redeemer's character. He's strong, silent,religious in his own mind, and notably lethal. He has become a legend in criminal circles—a hush falls over the room at the mere mention of hisnickname. The Redeemer travels the country, visiting local churches in order toseek out people who have been wronged. Whether or not these people ask for hishelp, the Redeemer hunts down the wrongdoers and puts his version of the fearof God into them before dispatching them with his hands, his feet, or whateverelse might be around him. In the prologue, he overhears a man praying forjustice for his son, who was savagely beaten by a group of Neo-Nazis. TheRedeemer takes it upon himself to bring about what he believes to be justice. There's not much to him, so that's where the traditionallogic of the necessity of a good villain comes into play. We want some kind ofpersonality to accompany the violence and wanton bloodletting, otherwise it caneasily become a shallow exercise in fights and shootouts and explosions of thered stuff. The movie, written and directed byErnesto Díaz Espinoza,provides two villains. The first is another strong, silent type of man,although he might say more words in the movie's climax than the Redeemer saysthrough the entire movie. He's called the Scorpion (Jose Luis Mosca), and his goalis to kill the Redeemer. His methods are what set him apart from just someanonymous antagonist. He is not only hunting his foe but also killing thepeople the Redeemer has helped in the process, even if those people have nodirect ties to the Redeemer. He uses what he calls the worst kind oftorture—mental—and the cruelest weapon—fear. The Scorpion offers the man from theprologue a sadistic choice: burn to death or shoot himself with the gun theScorpion taped to his head. Whatever we might think of the Redeemer and hismethods, this man is a monster. The other villain is Bradock (Noah Segan), an Americandrug dealer who has come to Chile to give the country the drug lord he believesit needs. He's a more talkative fellow, especially since his translator (DanielMaraboli) provides the subtext of threat in his words. He's also a joke,spending a good chunk of his time in the movie discussing what nickname heshould give himself. He's amusing, which gives the violent material somemuch-needed levity, although a lot of the humor involving the character feelsoverly coordinated. Advertisement The plot is routine. The Redeemer arrives in a new townand becomes entangled in Bradock's most recent drug deal. The Scorpion getscloser. The Redeemer receives some help from Agustin (Mauricio Diocares), whounwittingly took the money for the drug deal, and Antonia (Loreto Aravena), themother of a sick child who philosophizes about the nature of man to put theRedeemer in more sympathetic context. It's merely an excuse to get the Redeemer involved in aseries of brawls. These fights have been choreographed by Zaror in a way thatfeels atypical compared to what we usually see in martial arts movies. Thesebouts are slow (not simply because Espinoza highlights certain strikes andposes using slow-motion, which becomes extraneous pretty quickly) andmethodical. Zaror is clearly a skilled athlete, but what's moreintriguing is how we can see him, as the Redeemer, planning his next move onthe fly. It's not simply an explosion of violence. It's a precise burn. This isespecially true in a trio of one-on-one confrontations in which we quicklycomprehend the strategy employed by each of the combatants—grabs and holds totest each other's mettle or the Redeemer eyeing a certain spot on hisopponent's body before unleashing a string of direct blows. The first climax, which closes the drug deal portion ofthe plot, sidesteps the hand-to-hand fighting for a sequence of bloody gunplay.It's less involving, and indeed, the fights themselves become a bit repetitive.These wouldn't matter as much if "Redeemer" had a distinctpersonality beyond the occasional flash from the villains.