Andy BichlbaumandMike Bonannoare the leaders of the Yes Men,a satirical leftist activist group that gets their message across by puttingwords in their target’smouths. When corporations (and/or nations run by corporations) need theirevildoing embarrassed, Bichlbaum & Bonanno, along with help from theirteam, pretend to represent the satirized in front of the press. Armed withcheap suits and pseudonyms the Coen brothers would wish they had thought of(Erastus Hamm, Kinnithrung Sprat, Granwyth Hulatberi), guerilla goofballs Mike& Andy become fake reps at conferences, where they announce grandioseinitiatives that are too good, or ridiculous, to be true. The news reports it,and once the hoax is revealed, the Yes Men can soap box about the underlyingfrustration within their prank, while the targets begin damage control. It’s a littleMichael Moorepolitics dressed up withSacha Baron Cohen’s showmanship. Aside from the various news segments they'vestarred in, their shenanigans have now been collected in three documentaryfilms, creating the rare franchise that improves with each installment. Advertisement"     The Yes Men    Are Revolting" (co-directed by Bichlbaum,Bonanno, and     Laura Nix    ) prevails by justifying the duo’s charismatic relationship with a bromantic arc, offering aresonant understanding of these culture jamming junkies. Instead of being dorkyGen-X heroes (as in 2003's "     The Yes Men    ") or self-designated cartooncharacters ("     The Yes Men Fix the World    " from 2009), they're nowcontextualized with relationships and jobs, as men whose vitalizing friendshipis in a love triangle with activism.In the beginning of "The Yes Men Are Revolting," thetwo are buddy-buddy in their political pranking, focusing this time on globalwarming. Bichlbaum announces on behalf of a later-mortified U.S. Chamber ofCommerce that they are now going to work against climate change, while Bonannotries to show his support by arriving in a giant inflatable ball (the"SurvivaBall," for all your natural disaster needs). When Bonannocan't get in, he ventures to the Capitol with other SurvivaBall folk, and hurlshimself down the landmark's steps.After a nonetheless successful stunt later at the COP15 ClimateChange Summit in Copenhagen, Bichlbaum & Bonanno are defeated by the lackof change from the conference, the ominous corporations winning again in thestruggle within world government for proper resources. They separate, whichinadvertently provides the Yes Men saga needed personal reflection time aboutwhere they've come from. During these segments, Bonanno focuses on hisexpanding family, while sharing with us the activism planted in him from hisparents. Meanwhile, Bichlbaum breaks up with his boyfriend, reflects upon hisown childhood, and begins to work with other members of the Yes Men brigade fora stunt against the Shell company. He pulls off a definitive Yes Men prank—aestheticallypersuasive at first and with a grotesqueclimax—but without Bichlbaum, it's not the same.Advertisement A documentary fittingly executive produced byAdam McKay(director of "Step Brothers," "Anchorman"), its third actoffers the friendly fuzziness of a Hollywood comedy, but without a narrativesimplicity. The film's passion is bigger than Bichlbaum & Bonanno’sfriendship, as their activism needs rejuvenation too. Featuring nods to thespirit within Occupy Wall Street and the reform achieved recently by othercountries, "The Yes Men Are Revolting" poignantly wraps itself up asan ode to friendship and the teamwork required to create change. Issues with "The Yes Men Are Revolting" mostly arisefrom the potential that this documentary's wider scope invites. The Bichlbaum& Bonanno backstories are finally divulged, but now the overall Yes Mencommunity inspires a nagging curiosity, especially as operations prove to befar bigger than these two. And when engaging this comedic documentary asentertainment, don't just come for the shenanigans, as they aren't thesweet-spot. Their hoaxes can run flat with simply dressed-up madness, making apoint that's more rewarding with footage of news channels believing it morethan any significant comedic experience. Bichlbaum & Bonanno are naturallyfunny guys, which is great for character-building. But while they are activistsbefore filmmakers, they are not established entertainers first. Maybe thesequel to this film will involve another test of their friendship when a comedywriter is added to the mix? Formerly a producer on "The Yes Men Fix the World,"co-director Nix is a crucial promotion to their filmmaking team. As Bichlbaum& Bonanno become primarily subjects once again (after co-directing"The Yes Men Fix the World" themselves), some great scenes involve anoutsider's look into their friendship, such as the intimate denouement inBichlbaum’s apartment that officially reunites them emotionally as theysit in a NYC power outage’s total darkness. It's a multi-layered slice of them that wouldfit in the same spot within a Duplass-directed indie, as matched with some real-lifecomedy from earlier, in which the two friends cram into a polar bear costume,and operate it step by step. Who said that a political film can’t besweet, too? In its grandest triumph, “The Yes Men Are Revolting” is an activist doc inspiredby more than just its topical issues.Advertisement