For better or worse, at the end credits of “The 11th Hour,” theviewer will, I can confidentially predict, have a “Well, THAT was something”feeling. Whether the “something” part is considered good or bad I won’t hazard,but there you have it. The latest movie from Danish-born writer/director AndersMorgenthaler starsKim Basinger, as you’ve never seen her before, as they usedto say in the days of more overtly cheesy movie-marketing campaigns than weenjoy today. She’s not the first person we see in the movie: the openingcredits take place in, well, an amniotic sac (or rather the simulation of same)in which a fetus is growing into recognizable human shape. “When I look at youand I feel you in me, it’s so far beyond love,” Basinger is soon heard saying.Is her character, Maria, addressing her husband, Peter (Sebastian Shipper) orthe aforementioned little one? Well, Maria soon wakes up to horribly bloodiedsheets and is rushed to a hospital. Turns out she just suffered the last, andworst, in a series of miscarriages, and is told by a doctor in no uncertainterms that she’s got to stop trying to conceive. Peter follows suit, insistingthe couple come to terms with the fact that it’s going to be childless. For theaging Maria, though, there’s a problem: a small wisp of a child, looking ratherlike a genuine fairy-tale variant of the Lady In The Radiator from Lynch’s“Eraserhead,” is constantly visiting Maria, telling the “mother” that she needsto find her. “I am here,” the vision insists. Uh-oh. Advertisement Maria is a top executive at a European shipping company(Morgenthaler initially handles the specific details of Maria’s life with a deftnessthat often escapes filmmakers preoccupied with weighty themes such as squelchedmotherhood), and when she’s conferring with a human rights group that’sconcerned about child prostitution on one of the company’s most-traveledroutes, she’s visited by a near-lunatic idea. Learning that many of the childprostitutes actually sell their babies, Maria immediately convinces herselfthat the child who speaks to her is out there on that route. Armed with herfancy car and a lot of cash at her disposal, she takes off to Germany and itsborders. She soon enlists little person Christian (Jordan Prenticeof “InBruges”) in her quest. Christian, whom she first sees in a panda suit, gettinginto a vicious street fight, is not quite a paradigm of reliability. “I don’tget a fix, I can’t help you,” he says early on, and the character’s junkiedomnaturally determines a lot of his subsequent actions, including his decision totag along with Maria despite his initial revulsion at the notion of purchasinga child prostitute’s possibly unwanted baby. As you might expect, things do notgo swimmingly, even after (well, more likeparticularlyafter) a baby is located, abscondedwith, and reclaimed by a very tough and violent character played by PeterStormare.