The story behind “The Wolfpack,” one of this year’s buzziestSundance docs, is one of that blessed event in filmmaking—blind luck.Director     Crystal Moselle    was walking down an NYC street one day whenshe saw six young men in suits and sunglasses coming in the other direction.They passed by her and Moselle had the instinct to turn around and ask them theirstory. And what a story she heard. The Angulo brothers—six young men withsimilar features and long black hair—brought her up to their tiny apartment,shared with a shy mother and aggressive father. Moselle learned that the Anguloshad barely been allowed to leave this apartment over the course of their entireexistence, raised in a secluded, near-cult family, allegedly driven byfather Oscar’s fear of the real world. With an abusive father and no contactwith the outside world, the Angulos became obsessed with feature films, writingout scripts for flicks like “     Reservoir Dogs    ” and “     Pulp Fiction    ” by pausing the DVDs and thenreenacting them in fine detail. Film became their only portal to the real world, their way toexpress their fears and desires. And Moselle caught these boys just as theywere moving from a world lit by a television tube to one with sunlight.Advertisement Clearly, Moselle had instant affection for the Angulo boys.It’s hard not to. They are remarkably sweet and gentle, and the sadness intheir eyes, especially the older ones, when they discuss their heartbreakingupbringing and fear of the real world is the kind that makes you want to givethem a hug. Early in “The Wolfpack,” the older boys ask if she got up to theirapartment OK, as if something bad would happen to her in the lobby, and are excited to cookdinner for their special guest. It’s clear from Moselle’s verité style, inwhich she doesn’t often seem to ask follow-up questions but let the boys cometo their own emotional conclusions, that she was very concerned about theseyoung men, as anybody would be. But the arms-length approach can befrustrating. There are times when the Angulos seem to be directing “TheWolfpack” more than Moselle, and it’s an incredible story that would have benefitedfrom a surer hand. Despite the sense sometimes that Moselle isn’t driving “Wolfpack”in the way needed to make it truly work, she undeniably finds some beautifulmoments in the trajectory of the Angulos, although they are sometimes sofleeting as to frustrate when they aren’t further developed. The most strikingmoment comes when an Angulo says that “Wewere frightened kids…that’s one of the first memories I have,” whendiscussing the abusive Oscar, who one claims ended every fight with mom with aslap. Moselle then cuts to a figure of Mukunda, the most reflective of theboys, in a detailed Batman costume, before reenacting “The Dark Knight.” Do theboys relate to macho, male-driven films because they haven’t had a decent malerole model in their lives? Are they drawn to the melancholy of Nolan’s take onthe character because it reflects their own? Much of “The Wolfpack” is undeniably moving, especially asthe boys come out into the real world, frightened and unsure of themselves.They see “big f**king trees” andcompare them “The Lord of the Rings.” They see “The Fighter” and are happy thattheir ticket money will go toChristian Bale. There’s a naïve, heartwarmingapproach to the power of cinema in “The Wolfpack” that clearly appealed to thecinephiles in Park City. Could Moselle have found a way to make this incredible storyinto an incredible film? Part of the problem may be that she came upon theAngulos at the time they were emerging from their near imprisonment and thatmade her hesitant to pry into their pasts for fear of placing blocks in what seems like a road to recovery, as anybody would be. When mom saysthat she grew up in the Midwest and thinks public school “socialization” is notthat good, anybody would almost feel impolite to pry further into herbackground or the falsity of that belief. And yet that’s what separates great documentariesfrom good ones. Advertisement