Recall, cinephiles, the end of the 1997Jennifer Lopezvehicle “Anaconda”. AfterJon Voightacts himself to death,documentarian Lopez and her cameramanIce Cubefinally discover the lost tribethey’d gone to the Amazon to film in the first place before running afoul ofphysics-defying reptiles. Now imagine that after the credits rolled, Ice andJ-Lo decided that the best thing to do with their camera now that they’dlocated this mythic people, whose ancient ways of life will be totally alien towestern civilization, was to make them act in a remake ofLarry Clark’syouthsploitation headache “Kids”. A little self-defeating, right? You canimagine my frustration when I realized about twenty minutes into MyroslavSlaboshpitsky’s “The Tribe,” that this was more or less what I was beingshown. Advertisement “The Tribe” would be a hopelessly banalarthouse wallow were it not for its setting: a school for the deaf. The moviehas no spoken dialogue nor any subtitles. Everything is communicated throughsign language and facial expressions. This should be a revolutionary stepforward for representation of the differently abled, a window into a life thatmost of us could never begin to understand, but some unbelievably cynicaldirection makes the decision feel like a cheap novelty. Slaboshpitsky may haveintended to update the silent-era melodrama for more enlightened times but thefitfully fascinating, largely infuriating result hues much closer to theinfamous production code-skirting “hygiene” films of William Beaudine. Movieslike Beaudine’s “Mom and Dad” used to show girls falling on hard times andgetting abortions, and because the films were billed as “educational,” theycould get away with showing unedited footage of pregnancies and sexuallytransmitted infections. “The Tribe” seems to think that because it’s showing theworld in a new way, it can get away with preposterous exploitation tactics. Inthis way, it also brings to mind “The Terror of Tiny Town,” the infamouswestern with a cast entirely under 5 feet tall. Trust me, those are the lastthings you want in your head while watching a movie made in 2015. What feels like mere moments after Sergey(Grigoriy Fesenko) arrives at his new school, he’s inducted into the student’ssocial and criminal hierarchy. And make no mistake, this is a highlysophisticated operation: girls are pimped out to truckers, strangers are beatenand robbed by mobs of kids and a series of enforcers are dispatched to collectdebts on behalf of the school’s resident kingpin (Alexander Osadchiy). Sergeyinitially fits in perfectly, proving himself in hilariously unconvincing schoolyard brawls and taking part in shakedowns, but when he falls for one of theking’s prostitutes, events take a bloody left turn. Nothing in “The Tribe” is as beguiling asSlaboshpitsky’s motivation for casting the hearing impaired. He apparently hasno knowledge of sign language, which begs the question, did he have the idea tomake a movie and then decided to fill it exclusively with the hearing impairedafter he’d written it, or did he want to make a movie specifically about thehearing impaired and wrote this lazy movie for them? Who knows? What’s beyondquestion is that there is absolutely nothing in this film that is specific tothe experience of deaf students. No punishment is spared the hapless kids at the film’scenter. “The Tribe” favors a nervous, handheld camera that gawks at theaction, rather than commenting on it in any meaningful way. The quiveringtableaux constantly conjure up the image of the director trembling withexcitement about all the edgy misery he’s putting both his characters and theaudience through. Advertisement If Slaboshpitsky retrofitted histiresome screenplay with sign language because he wanted to prove thateveryone, no matter their circumstances, is only human, I can think of a dozenmuch less dimwitted strategies he might have employed. If he was interested inre-defining silent films, he could have thought of a way to present his shrill,hypocritical worldview with at least some of the savvy of silent erafilmmakers. He lacks any sense of dramatic continuity. Sergey is seen attending exactlytwo classes, and the rest of the film is about the escapades of the derangedstudent body running amok. Where are the teachers? Where are the police? Ifthis is satire, an intentional laugh or two might have helped sell it. The onlyone in the movie comes when a kid is literally held upside down and shaken todisgorge the contents of his pockets like a cartoon character. And yet I can’trecall an episode of “Looney Tunes” where a teenaged girl undergoes a painful,real-time abortion or a student murders his classmates with a bedside tablewhile they sleep. Any film attempting all three images needs a tonal identity.“The Tribe,” like a bully caught drawing naked women during 3rd period algebra,has only a smug grin to offer as justification for its crimes against subtlety. Slaboshpitsky traffics in the worst kind of cowardly aestheticism. He’lllinger on kids having graphic sex only to punish them with a broken bottle overthe head a few minutes later. It would be nice to be able to commend a film with sound design that consists largely of the rush of hands furiously creating meaningin the air or the accidentally emphasized syllables that slip out duringintense conversations, but it can’t go ten minutes without indulging in onehorrifically boring act of degradation or another. The many sequences of theteens communicating a mile a minute with their hands is thrillingly cinematicenough without recourse to sex and violence. The hearing impaired deserve tohave their experiences rendered cinematically. They also deserve better thanthe shamelessly tawdry likes of “The Tribe.” We all do.