U.S. citizens almost never process the news that comes outof the Middle East as occurring in the context of people who are trying to haveeveryday lives. Physical battle and argument seems so constant that we rarelyextend our imaginative empathy into quotidian realms. Such as, for instance,Palestinians wanting to nourish theirkids with milk, or who want to take their coffee in a form besides black. “The Wanted 18” is an unusual documentary, co-directed byAmer ShomaliandPaul Cowanabout a late-1980s attempt in a Palestinian town toachieve dairy self-sufficiency. During the first uprising deemed an “intifada”in that period, Palestinians organized various boycotts of Israelis servicesand commodities, and to that end, in the town of Beit Sahour, an enterprisingfellow purchased 18 milk cows from a liberal kibbutz tender. The movie beginswith co-director Shomali, who calls Beit Sahour his home town despite the factthat he was raised in a refugee camp, remembering reading about these cows in acomic book when he was a boy. This inspires the movie’s most potentiallyeyebrow-raising formal strategy: telling portions of the story viacomic-book-style graphics and stop-motion animation. Shomali raises the ante byanthropomorphizing four of the cows, giving them names—Rikva, Ruth, Goldie, andLola—and the power of speech. These Israel-raised cows are made to disdain theirnew owners—“Infitada, shmintifada,” one drawls—but eventually their cynicismevolves into a drive to survive. Advertisement This gives rise to a potent metaphor, even as the direlyquixotic nature of the town’s project is acknowledged right off the bat.“Palestinians don’t have a cow culture,” one of the interviewees allows. “Sheepand goats, yes. Cows, no.” The initial misadventures of the new would-be dairyfarmers are comic, but soon the viewer sees the extent to which even thesemaladroit efforts come to constitute a burr in the side of the Israeli would-beauthorities. One anecdote ends with an armed member of the Israeli securityforce stepping out of his jeep and into a large pile of freshly laid manure,and the ensuing indignation. Jalal Oumsieh, one of the Beit Sahour residentswho got the ball rolling, has a hard time containing his amusement as herecollects Israeli officials going door-to-door and waving portraits of bovinesin people’s faces while asking “Have you seen this cow?”