Nobody doubts that directorJoe Dante, the eye andsensibility behind “The Howling,” “Gremlins,” “Innerspace,” and more, is agenre master, a guy who can blend gory horror with mordant comedy with apparentease, who can bring a true Looney Tunes feel to live-action sci-fi and fantasy,and more. Even masters have their off days, however, and Dante’s new picture,“Burying The Ex,” seems to have been made over the course of quite a few ofthem. Scripted and co-produced byAlan Trezza, and admittedly shot on the cheapover what must have been a very punishing 20-day shoot, the picture hasintermittent charm and very little flair. Its eagerness to ingratiate long-timehorror fans, what with its multiple references to obscure films and nods tospecialist publications such as Video Watchdog (and yes I am a proudsubscriber), actually gets a little irritating after a while. Yes, “Burying TheEx,” I thought as I watched, I AM on your side conceptually already. Now couldyou start being genuinely funny? Or scary? Or something? AdvertisementAnton Yelchin’s Max is a horror geek who works at amemorabilia shop and is hoping to start his own such emporium. His ratherimprobable girlfriend Evelyn (Ashley Greene) is a prim (in every respect exceptsex-wise, which trait I guess is meant to register as “quirky”) eco-warrior whohas little patience for Max’s enthusiasms or his ultra-loutish half-brotherTravis. The whole Max-Travis dynamic is reminiscent of the male relationshipsin earlySeth Rogen/Evan Goldbergscripts such as “Superbad,” only those workshad good jokes. Trezza’s script teems with clumsy lines such as “Just let mefinish up this blog” (the character means “blog post”) and “That wasfangtastic.” And the Max/Evelyn relationship is reminiscent of “Knocked Up,” Iguess, because the couple only ever has Bra Sex. Evelyn moves in and takes downall of Max’s cherry Italian horror movie posters, while a local ice-cream shopgives Max a taste of alternate dating reality in the form of horror-movieloving Olivia (Alexandra Daddario). Also: a talisman at Max’s shop puts,apparently, some form of curse on Evelyn. So that when she’s killed in a streetaccident, she doesn’t stay dead. Hence the title. Zombie Evelyn isn’t like other zombies: she’s fullyfunctional, brain-wise, and weirdly for Max, just as frisky as she was when shehad a beating heart. She doesn’t even look that bad—not falling-off body parts,some bruising around the face and neck and a generally hollowed-out thing goingon. “Your girlfriend is so Goth,” Olivia says to Max, not suspecting thebizarre love triangle she’s walking into. That last line is about as close to agood one-liner as the movie offers up, by the way. As for the zombie stuff,it’s even less convincing and engaging as I’m making it sound. I know thathorror movies, or horror comedies, aren’t for people who like their filmscenarios plausible, but “Burying The Ex” offers such a watered-down andinternally inconsistent idea of zombiedom that it makes any kind of willingsuspension of disbelief well nigh impossible. The material proves, I fear,intractable for director Dante, who shows a little verve in the last third,intercutting a new-love sequence with a bit of human-organ-eating onabandoned-for-the-evening Zombie Evelyn’s part. Different strokes, as they say.Potentially tautological as this may seem I’m not even sure I can, with goodconscience, call this a film for Dante completists only. And I can only hope hegets a bigger budget and more time, and a better script, for whatever he doesnext.