Toggling between engaging meta-narratives (“24 Hour PartyPeople,” “A Cock And Bull Story,”  “The Trip,”its sequel “The Trip To Italy) and more conventionally-told fare (“The Claim,”“Code 46,” “A Mighty Heart”), directorMichael Winterbottomhas been one of the more distinctive and engaging cinematic voices of thepast 20 years or so. I know that I’ve enjoyed and been moved or intrigued byalmost all the movies of his I’ve seen (although I considered “Heart” a bit ofa misfire), so it was a little disconcerting to watch “The Face of an Angel”and witness the director returning to some familiar ideas and tropes, and endingup with so little to show for them. Advertisement Like his most recent U.S. feature release, “The Trip ToItaly,” “The Face of an Angel” takes place in, well, take a guess. But while“Trip” gave us a couple of real-life comedians playing themselves and toolingaround beautiful countrysides and eating like kings and doing incredibleMichael Caineimpersonations, “Angel” offers usDaniel Bruhlin the role of adissolute, hard-up filmmaker coming to the country to research a filmabout…aiieeee…the Amanda Knox murder case. Only it’s not really about the Amanda Knox murder case.Here’s where things get tricky, as they tend to do in Winterbottom’s films (see“Party People,” in which almost all the characters would address the camera directly,real-life figures from the scene it depicted popped up in pointed cameos, andso on, as just one example): all the names have been changed into fictionalizedcharacters, but the details are all extremely similar. AND, the credited sourcematerial for the movie is a real-life nonfiction book about the real case by ajournalist namedBarbie Latza Nadeau. Who is here made into a character namedSimone Ford and played byKate Beckinsale. Simone does this and that, as sheexplains to Bruhl’s Thomas, contributing “to The Daily Beast” (lucky her) andshe’s got a suitably cynical expat perspective of the sort that was satirizedtrenchantly by Waugh and others over the years. Indeed, Thomas’ varyingexchanges with the English-speaking journos covering the case bring to mindHildy Johnson’s sarcastic “gentlemen of the press!” greeting in the classic“His Girl Friday.” As he feels pressure from British-based producers, wrangleswith the end of his marriage, and falls into what we can presume to be apattern of drug abuse, Bruhl’s Thomas also tries to come to grips with hismaterial. As he types his script, we see it enacted on screen. We also see hisnightmares of cuckolding and murder. We also see his paranoid hallucinationsafter he rents a flat from a sinister fellow who wants him to read one of hisown scripts. There’s also the matter of his falling into bed with Simone (ofcourse) and falling in a sort of infatuation with a student-abroad bartender(Cara Delevinge) who, in a rather staggering bit of contrivance, lends himDante’s “La Vita Nuova.” Jeez, guys, this routine didn’t work in PaulSchrader’s “Cat People” remake, either. It’s all very pretty to look at and some of the actors areengaging—okay, Delevinge, who looks like a cross between young Melissa JoanHart and youngJudith Godreche, if you can imagine such a thing (well I guessyou wouldn’t really have to imagine) is engaging. To get at the heart of what’swrong with “The Face of an Angel” all you need to do is consider theprofessional stones it takes to adapt the Amanda Knox case into yet anothermovie about the existential/amorous crises of a white male filmmaker. (And thenhave the nerve to dedicate the results to the memory of the murder-victim inthe real-life case!) What might have looked provocative on paper winds uplooking kind of cheap and opportunistic on screen, leaving Thomas’ petulantcomplaint, “I don’t want to make a film about fear or death or killing; I wantto make a film about love,” ringing hollow in one’s ears at the end. As of thismoment, the only Italy-based Michael Winterbottom film worth seeing is the onein which the two guys do Michael Caine. Advertisement