David Gordon Greencontinues to focus on character studies,as he did with “Prince Avalanche” and “Joe,” but the results this time are decidedlymore frustrating than those superior efforts. Just as “Joe” often felt like a vehicleto rehabilitate the oft-mocked career ofNicolas Cagein the last decade or so,“Manglehorn” sometimes feels designed to remind us thatAl Pacinois still oneof our greatest actors. OK. Point taken. Now what? While “Joe” built aninteresting film around Cage’s performance, Green leaves Pacino adrift in “Manglehorn,”and the result is a disappointing, shambling piece of melancholy with a fewinteresting scenes here and there that never cohere in such a way that allows the legendary actor to disappear into the character. Advertisement Pacino plays an eccentric locksmith named Manglehorn who lives in a small Texas town by himself. He’s estranged from his financially successful son Jacob(Chris Messina), has few real friends outside of his cat, and writes letters tothe love of his life who got away many years ago. A highlight of his meager existence seemsto be the occasional visit to the local bank to see the lovely teller Dawn(Holly Hunter), but when he’s given a chance to turn that into somethinggreater, he fumbles. Manglehorn has allowed anger, regret and depression to push him into isolation in his later years. He doesn’t havemuch left outside of his key-making business, and that basically just gives himanother reason to be alone in his shop. On one level,Paul Logan’s script is defiantly episodic:Manglehorn talks to his son, he runs into an acquaintance (played in aremarkably aggravating style byHarmony Korine), he flirts with Holly Hunter,etc. While “Manglehorn” could have been a character study, a slice of reclusiveold age in modern America, Logan and Green layer their film with poeticself-importance, mostly in Manglehorn’s letters and inner monologues, completewith lines like “I’m losing hope in tomorrow.”It feels false, like a degree of self-understanding that only comes in motionpictures or bad fiction. And that dishonesty carries over to scenes betweenManglehorn and his son, especially a dinner between the two that’s just toopoorly written for Pacino and Messina to save it. Every shot of Manglehorn’s grizzled face is weighted withunearned gravitas, the kind that comes with designing a film around anactor instead of a character or a narrative. It feels like the first draft wascalled “Al Pacino is Still a Hell of an Actor.” And that showcase is constantlypushing against the film’s realism. There’s a scene late in the film betweenPacino and Hunter that really should work—she’s great in it—in which Dawnrealizes that Manglehorn’s enclosed life is one that she may not want to enter,but Pacino and Green can’t figure out how to play the moment. Pacino practicallyclimbs on a soapbox to deliver a monologue, when it should be about a manafraid and tentative to re-enter the real world of human relationships. At its best, “Manglehorn” is a surprisingly deep conversationwith an old friend on a twilight Southern evening. It’s about those times inour lives when we reassess past mistakes and consider the diminishing hours wehave left on this planet. I only wish the film allowed that conversation toflow naturally with a well-rounded character instead of reminding us over and over again that we’retalking to the one and only Al Pacino. Advertisement