Liz Garbus’ “What Happened, Miss Simone?,” premiering onNetflix this Friday after opening this year’s Sundance Film Festival, fallsjust short of greatness but captures enough of the remarkable story and talentof its subject that it warrants a look. Your mileage for a film like this oftencomes down to how much the viewer knows about the subject. I knew very littleabout the life of Nina Simone, although I did sense that if you are moreeducated on her life story, there may not be enough here that truly enlightens.Garbus’ approach fluctuates from standard, music doc talking-head appreciationsto long performances from archival video that are simply mesmerizing. Nina Simonecould hold an audience in such rapt attention that when she stops a song at onepoint in “What Happened” and orders someone to sit down, you almost don’t blameher. And “What Happened” features some of the best concert footage and musicalperformances in recent music doc memory, even if it never quite answers thequestion in its title. Advertisement Nina Simone lived more than enough life for a documentarylike Garbus’. Intercutting concert footage, talking-head interviews with peoplewho knew her (mostly her daughter), and audio of an interview conducted withSimone years ago, “What Happened, Miss Simone?” episodically captures all thebig moments of its subject’s life. It starts with the loneliness of practicingpiano as a child, with the stated desire to become a prodigy. It took seven oreight hours a day of practice. And it’s important to note that Simone was doingsomething “white,” literally crossing the tracks to take her piano lessons, andfeeling ostracized by both communities—unwelcome by the whites who felt she wasinvading their world and pushed out by her own community at the same time. Simone went to Juilliard for a year and half, but was deniedapplication to the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia. She was good enough buther race held her back, and the hard truth that she couldn’t practice enough toovercome institutional racism hurt her greatly, impacting the way she wouldrespond to the civil rights movement later in her life. She got a job in AtlanticCity at a dive bar. Imagine seeing Nina Simone playing at a crummy bar inAtlantic City. She honed her diverse skills there, moving out of classicaltraining to “bar music,” and being told she had to sing to keep the job. And,wow, could she sing. Garbus makes the very smart decision to allow Simone’stalent to be the main subject of “What Happened, Miss Simone?” We see some songsin their entirety, like a breathtaking “I Love You, Porgy” from a PlayboyPenthouse broadcast and a closing number that I won’t spoil but lands adeserved standing ovation. Whenever the presentation starts to feel a bit too “Behindthe Music” standard, the music and its creator elevate it. It’s certainly neverdull, even if I wish Garbus had found an approach as unique as her subject.Nina Simone had so much to say. We don’t need quite so much of her daughter’simpressions of her when the music often says so much more. Advertisement As so many music docs do, “What Happened, Miss Simone?”eventually gets truly dark. Simone’s husband/manager abused her, not onlypushing her too hard to work but physically beating her in front of her child.Simone had gotten to the top of the mountain in terms of her career, but therewas still so much pain and evil in her life, which you can certainly hear in alot of her music. When the civil rights movement became an important part ofher life, Simone expressed her belief that violence was the answer to achievingequality. It wouldn’t be given; it had to be taken. And that outspokenness hurther career, pushing her deeper into a life spent in depression and even leadingto her passing the physical abuse she had received on to her child. Garbusdoesn’t shy away from the darkness that Simone not only experienced but forcedon others. Netflix has become a major player when it comes totelevision but the jury is still out as to whether or not they will matter asmuch in the world of film. They have started to finance their own films (includingthe next one byCary Fukunagaof “Sin Nombre” and “True Detective”) and pick upmore and more festival hits every day. “What Happened, Miss Simone?” willlikely reach more people this weekend through the service than it would afterweeks in theaters. And it’s another sign that the company is considering highquality with their decisions instead of merely picking titles that would getthem attention.