“Ted,” the dirty-talking-teddy-bear hit of 2012, was packedwith a sufficient number of outrageous belly laughs that it was easy to letpass the fact that there wasn’t much of a movie underneath those laughs. Or, asI put it when I reviewed the first picture for another website, with suchenthusiasm that I actually gave it three-and-a-half stars (I’d adjust that to aneven three if I could turn back time), “it really is not quite so differentthan that of a standard romantic comedy in which a stand-up but somewhatimmature guy has to fight off his lesser angels, largely embodied in aslackerish best-friend character, so as to become The Man (and Husband) he wasMeant To Be.” “Man” beingMark Wahlberg’s John; “slackerish best friend” beingthe dirty-talking teddy bear, Ted, and eventual bride of man beingMila Kunis,who as it turned out showed plenty of good sense in not coming back for thesequel. Advertisement With John now divorced and porn-addicted, it’s up toexceptionally vulgar Ted to take up the storyline slack. “Ted 2” begins withthe bear, who could use a wash beyond soaping up his mouth, marryingformer-good-time hottie Tami-Lynn (Jessica Barth) at a wedding officiated bySam Jonesof “Flash Gordon” fame. (There’s a lot of recycling from the firstfilm here.) Soon their domestic bliss goes south, and the couple enact aquasi-parody of the “Raging Bull” “you bother me about a steak” scene, which israther queasily unfunnybecausetheDe Niro part is being played by a stuffed teddy bear rather than in spite ofit. Co-writer and director SethMacFarlane, the anything-goes creator ofseveral animated television series, followed “Ted” with an Oscar-hosting gigthat was distinguished by a callous smarminess, and then offered cinema awildly unfocused and grandiose Western parody (“A Million Ways To Die In TheWest”). In this film, centered around a really lazily conceived “civil rights”case to grant Ted his “personhood,” MacFarlane, who also voices Ted in aparticularly lumpen variant of Boston Nasal, gets really aggressive with his “Idare you to be offended” brand of humor. Particularly in the racial department. In one courtroom scene, a lawyer(there are three prominent ones in this movie, one played byJohn Slattery, onebyMorgan Freeman, and the third played byAmanda Seyfried; take a wild guesswhich one gets to be Wahlberg’s love interest) actually invokes Dred Scott, anddraws a connection between that notorious case and Ted’s petition. In another,a whipping scene, the TV miniseries “Roots” is played for pop-culture kitschlaughter. It’s not clear how funny these, and other such “racially themed”jokes would play in a country that wasn’t coming to terms with a racistmassacre, but I myself kind of doubt that a lack of horror in the headlineswould boost the yuck value of such japeries. Aside from race jokes, “Ted 2”offers a nearly staggering number of weed jokes, a couple of which are mildlyfunny, or at least funnier than the rape jokes. Then there are the gay panicjokes, the racial gay panic jokes, the celebrity cameo jokes, and longstretches of no jokes, oddly enough, stretches in which the creepy kidnappingsubplot of the first film is recycled, and works much less well than it did inthe first film, where it didn’t quite work but, you know, the jokes werefunnier. And so it goes. Advertisement While the first film offered, by my casualrecollection, almost two dozen belly laughs, this one barely registers four.The mean spiritedness oozes beyond the racial stuff and reaches fuller flowerat the movie’s climax, which is set at a comic geek convention, and yes,consider the possibilities. All aspiration to actual humor is set aside in favorof a hammering insistence on the sub-human qualities of fanboys, cosplayers and so on. It starts to get numbing after a while. Acridness combined withineffective humor is a bad mix, and whatever goodwill the movie scored based onsentimental value or the few effective jokes in the front end is entirely spentby the end credits. I suspect it’s going to be quite a while before we see a“Ted 3.”