The complex interrelated identities of Jewish andPalestinian Israelis—two peoples divided by a shared culture, to paraphraseOscar Wilde’s reputed quip—is movingly explored in “A Borrowed Identity,” asharply mounted drama about a young Arab who finds reasons to “pass” as Jewish. The film represents a merging of cultures in its originstoo. It was directed byEran Riklis, a leading Israeli filmmaker (“The HumanResources Manager,” “The Syrian Bride”), and scripted by acclaimed Arab-Israeliwriter Seyad Kashua (“Dancing Arabs,” “Let It Be Morning”), based on hisautobiographical fictions. Advertisement The tale opens in an Arab village in the 1980s when thefamily of young Eyad (Razi Gabareen) are transfixed by the sight of Israelijets attacking Lebanon on the TV news. Politics and war are much on everyone’sminds, but so are the bonds of family. Eyad is particularly close to hisgrandmother (Marlene Barjali), who advises him on her wishes for her burial, anevent he hopes is far in the future. Eyad also looks up to his feisty, opinionated dad (AliSuliman), a laborer who sees his son as the key to a brighter future. Many ofthe scenes of Eyad’s schooling are comical, as when as a Jewish-American peaceactivist comes into the classroom and tells the students he wants to buildbridges between Jewish culture and theirs, and his Israeli translatortranslates this as saying that the Arab kids will never be anything but farmersand laborers. But school is also a serious place for Eyad; since he is thebrightest of students, it offers the chance to propel himself into a betterlife. When the tale’s second act opens, it is the early ‘90s andEyad (nowTawfeek Barhom) is a determined teen arriving at one of Jerusalem’smost prestigious boarding schools. He seems to be the only Arab student, andhis Jewish fellows appear to view him with a mixture of curiosity and veiledsuspicion. Bent on academic success, he does his best to fit in and makefriends. One friend in particular adds to his new life’s delights andcomplications. Naomi (Danielle Kitsis) is a beautiful fellow student whoseattraction to Eyad develops rapidly into romance, but one that’s eventuallythreatened by the various obstacles facing them, including those presented byher Jewish family. Thanks to the strong performances of the actors here, thefilm’s presentation of young love is impressively nuanced and persuasive. Eyad forges an important friendship outside of school withYonatan (Michael Moshonov), a young man who’s homebound with musculardystrophy. At first reaching out to him is an assignment and a chore, but thetwo soon bond over rock music. Eyad is also moved by Yonatan’s relationshipwith his mother, Edna (Yael Abeccassis). Eventually Eyad’s scholarly pursuits are derailed, much tohis father’s annoyance and dismay, and he’s obliged to go to work. But gainingemployment and even things like having a bank account are difficult for Arabs,so, in need of an Israeli identity, he lights on one—Yonatan’s. If going to aJewish academy was a big jumping off point in his life, adopting a Jewishidentity is an even bigger one. Advertisement “A Borrowed Identity” commendably avoids polemics in orderto provide a textured portrait of a young man going through a set of personaltransitions against the background of ongoing cultural flux that reflects alarger, collective identity crisis. Its evocation of the historical periodfeels carefully honed and resonant. It’s not a film without flaws, however. Eyad’s relationshipswith his Jewish male friends at school could have stood deeper development. Andhis relationship with Naomi is not given a satisfying resolution but insteadseems to get lost in the mounting emphasis on Yonatan and the new identity. Allthe same, “A Borrowed Life” emerges as one of the most engaging and polished ofrecent Israeli films, and as such is well worth the attention of anyoneinterested in the cultures and issues it limns.