Few actors feel as present asBenicio Del Toro, a performerthat doesn’t play-act, he embodies the characters he portrays. In “Escobar:Paradise Lost,”Del Torocould be playing with children in a pool or ordering ayoung man to commit murder, and he performs both scenes with the same genuineintensity. He has such a keen awareness of his surroundings, whether it be hisco-stars, shooting location, or even the few pounds he put on to play someoneas larger than life as Pablo Escobar. He’s really very good here, as he almostalways is, no matter the quality of the film around him. The rest of the movie?Not so much. Advertisement “Escobar: Paradise Lost” suffers from the same problem as “MyWeek with Marilyn,” “Me andOrson Welles” and “The Last King of Scotland,”three films that also chose to capture legendary figures through the eyes of arelatable innocent. So, instead of a biopic of Pablo Escobar starring BenicioDel Toro, we get a fictionalized tale of a Canadian transplant who stumblesinto Escobar’s circle of influence when he marries Escobar’s beloved niece starringJosh Hutcherson.Basically, the protagonist is nowhere near as interesting as the titlecharacter, and so whenever Del Toro is off-camera, which is more than half thefilm, we feel his absence to the degree that one wonders if the film wouldn’twork better without the true figure behind it. We have different expectationsfor casting as perfect as “Benicio Del Toro as Pablo Escobar” than we do from “JoshHutcherson as Some Dumb Canadian.” Nick (Hutcherson) just wants to hang on the beach with hisbrother (Brady Corbet) and his family. They build a surf shack in the middle ofnowhere. Bro will cook; Nick will teach surfing. It truly will be paradise—and debutdirectorAndrea Di Stefanodoes a solid job of conveying the beauty of thispart of the world. One day, Nick runs into a lovely young woman named Maria(Claudia Traisac), who asks if he’s going to bring more “Yankees” down to theirpart of their world. Nick politely corrects her; he’s Canadian. Nick is verypolite. Nick is also a tad naïve. When Maria introduces him to herrich uncle Pablo Escobar, Nick doesn’t exactly ask the right questions. He doeshappen to wonder aloud how Uncle Pablo has so much money, to which Mariacasually answers, “Cocaine.” Huh? You don't say. Not long later, Nick mentions over polite conversation that somelocal thugs have been giving him and his brother trouble, including attackingNick with a violent dog (in a harrowing scene). Anyone who’s seen a movie willknow the thugs end up dead. And then Nick happens to be on the Escobar estateon a day that he’s not supposed to be there, and things get really bad. Advertisement The second half of “Paradise Lost” is actually a prettyrobust thriller, especially a centerpiece action-suspense scene in which Nickstruggles to keep his head above water as the world is crashing around him.There’s a harrowing phone call or two and some really strong sense of setting,buoyed by confident direction, especially for a first-time director. Here’s themoment where I realized that it’s not Josh Hutcherson’s fault that hischaracter doesn’t really work, and not really even Di Stefano’s, but the factthat this is two movies grafted into one. On one hand, we have a true story ofcrime and poverty bringing down paradise on Earth. On the other, we have thestory of an innocent caught in a web of violence. Both films kind of work, and both films are lessened by the way they are smashed together here. Were this just a straightforward,fictional thriller, it might be pretty effective. But it’s not. The name is right there in the title. Andevery time that Benicio Del Toro shows up as Pablo Escobar, we’re reminded ofthe movie that this could have been, making it easier to criticize the movie itchose to be instead.