The stalwart English-born directorKen Loachhas stated thatthis picture, set in Ireland in the 1930s (for the most part), will be hisfinal fiction feature. Loach’s matter-of-factness as both a person and anartist is reflected in the reality that, for better or worse, there’s nothingabout “Jimmy’s Hall” that suggests a swan song or a grand summation. It’s justanother solid Loach film, an affectionate realist portrait of individualsfighting against state and religious oppression. In this case the setting, asit was for his 2006 Cannes Film Festival Palme d’Or winner “The Wind ThatShakes The Barley,” is Ireland. Advertisement The opening credits, however, show 1920s newsreel footage ofNew York City, and is accompanied by the warm scruffy sound of American jazz on78 rpm records. The post-credits cut to a particularly beautiful Irishlandscape—a narrow winding road between a grassy ridge and a similarly greenbut suppler hill—is a bit of a shock. All becomes clear soon. The movie’sprotagonist, Jimmy Gralton—the  Jimmy ofthe title, played with quiet charisma and conviction byBarry Ward—is back inhis home in Ireland’s County Leitrim after a ten-year exile, and while awayhe’s been working in New York, and soaking up the culture. That culture is someof what he imparts to the community when he’s inspired to reopen a meeting hallhe helped create ten years before. As it happens, it was that hall, called Pearse-ConnollyHall, opened during the Irish Civil War, which played a part in Jimmy’sself-imposed exile. And now that he’s back in a cozy cottage with his mum (who,we learn, was a self-starting educator herself back in the day), he’s a locallegend to the kids, who, starved for both entertainment and enlightenment, beghim to reopen the hall. The main entreater happens to be Marie O’Keefe (AislingFranciosi) the teenage daughter of  oneof Jimmy’s oldest enemies, an army commander played by Brian F. O’Byrne. “Does it break your heart or does it fill you with hope?” Soasks one of the film’s characters, discussing Yeats’ “The Song Of WanderingAengus,” at one of the hall’s casual reading groups. The conclusion is that itdoes both, and that can be said about a great deal of Loach’s own cinematicoutput, particularly his 1969 masterpiece “Kes,” a movie about childhood that’sright up there with Truffaut’s “The 400 Blows” for honesty and empathy andsadness. Written byPaul Laverty, “Jimmy’s Hall” has a more sedate toneoverall, even as Gralton and his companions face all manner of opposition frompowerful forces, beginning with Father Sheridan (Jim Norton—not the comedian,for heaven’s sake, but the Dublin-borncharacter actor) a shrewd cleric who tries to shame his parishioners out ofattending any events at the hall, decrying the jazz bands that play the dancesthere on predictable lewd-and-licentious grounds. Sheridan’s one of the mostinteresting characters in the film: a very bright man who sees Gralton as athreat to his institution on a very particular level, a person who may well berelatively tolerant in his own mind but understands that his power does notreside in tolerance. Advertisement In a reflection of what Robert Christgau has called “thetragicomedy of leftist sectarianism,” certain politically minded commentatorshave noted that this based-on-true-events film soft-sells the fact that thereal Jimmy Gralton was, besides being a community organizer, an unapologeticStalinist. Oh well. This movie, as it happens, smooths out quite a bit ofmaterial in order to make its story points and moods conform to that of arelatively conventional Inspiring Narrative. Jimmy is given a lost-then-refoundlove whom his innate sense of nobility inhibits him from reclaiming, forexample. The conventionality, in fact, every now and then flirts with thetrite, and the movie is bereft of the rough edges and surprises that were stillevident in “Barley.” On the other hand, the proceedings are conducted with bothintelligence and compassion prominently placed, and the acting all around,particularly from Norton, is first-rate. So while it may not represent entirelyaccurate history, it depicts a set of values and actions the filmmaker clearlyholds dear, and does so with commendable engagement. Enough that a viewer mightwish for Loach to change his mind with respect to his semi-retirement.