“The Killer and the Man Who Couldn’t Be Killed.” The basicset-up for the Aussie thriller “The Suicide Theory” could have been that of anepisode of “The Twilight Zone,” or any number or horrendousQuentin Tarantinoknock-offs that tried to sell audiences on philosophical hitmen in suits in the late ‘90s.I’ll admit to some serious apprehension given my general dislike of both twist-heavySerling knock-offs and screenwriters who don’t realize how difficult it is todo what QT does. So I'm happy to report that, for an hour or so, “The Suicide Theory” is surprisinglystrong. Carried by an engaging lead performance and witty dialogue that canreference “Candide” and “Sunset Blvd.” without seeming overly forced, the movieworks. Until it doesn’t. The final Act O’Twists, which almost anyone will seecoming from very far away, lets down the character work that preceded it andthe whole piece sinks just a bit too far into the melodramatic muck from whichits characters are trying to extricate themselves. Advertisement Steven (the excellentSteve Mouzakis) is a brutal,unapologetic hitman, the kind who leaves no witnesses and murders a man in theopening scene because he interrupted a conversation he was having. Steven ishired by the meek Percival (Leon Cain), a man with unusual scars on his faceand an even more unusual story. Percival wants to die but he can’t killhimself. Every time he tries, he wakes up in a hospital (and there’s a clever,Coen-esque running joke in which the same doctor says “You’re lucky to be alive.”) He’s even convinced that Steven can’tjust ice him like he does his other targets. After an opening discussion on atrain, Steven shoots Percival three times at close range. Percival lives. Notlong after, he shoots him again, in the head, taking out his eye. Percivallives. Percival tells Steven that he can only kill him when Percival reallydoesn’twantto die. Percival didsomething wrong and the powers that be won’t let him take the easy way out. So Steven and Percival form a unique relationship—the killerand the guy who wants to be killed. The problem is that Steven doesn’t reallywant to be a killer any more. He’s really only in the business because of theemotional baggage he carries after the hit and run accident that killed theonly woman he ever cared about. Similarly, Percival might have more to live forif his boyfriend Chris hadn’t been killed. These are two men at opposite endsof the spectrum socially, sexually, culturally, who, of course, learn they havemore in common than they originally thought. And that fate may have actuallybrought them together for a reason. There are signs of clichéd filmmaking from the beginning inthe flat close-ups and over-used score, but the performances carry “SuicideTheory” for a surprisingly long time. I wouldn’t be stunned at all to seeMouzakis pop up more and more in bigger parts. He’s engaging in a way thatmakes a loathsome character like Steven possible to watch. This can be astrikingly ugly, scuzzy film, such as in a pair of scenes near the end of thefirst act in which Steven has a one-night stand that ends in near-strangulationand Percival is the victim of a hate crime. And yet Mouzakis’ performance anddirectorDru Brown’s filmmaking keep the piece from turning off viewers in away that it can’t win them back. Advertisement Just as “The Suicide Theory” is becoming an interestingmeditation on fate vs. free will, it reaches a final act that’s really just amess. While the film probably wouldn’t exist without its final twists, I would arguethat it would be a much stronger film without them. Using the arc of a hitman’sredemption to comment on fate—given that murder is the ultimate theft of freewill—works without the “Twilight Zone” hook. The result, like so many attemptsPercival takes on his own life, is a near-miss.