Dallas Mavericks stalwartDirk Nowitzki's 17-year career inthe NBA would make a pretty good sports movie even without any broader context.Starting as a skinny, overwhelmed teenager struggling to live up to superlativeassessments by scouts, coaches, and players, Nowitzki evolved over time intoone of the league's great stars, the best outside-shooting big man who everwas, and eventually shook off several embarrassing playoff defeats to win achampionship. For the most part, the documentary "Nowitzki: The Perfect Shot"(distributedby Magnolia Pictures, whose co-owner Mark Cuban also owns the Mavericks) usesNowitzki's NBA career as its structural baseline, and includes many of thestandard boilerplate testimonials from teammates and rivals. Basketball aficionadoswill note the subtle significance of the measured comments about Nowitzki'scompetitive nature and work ethic from the notoriously and sternly competitiveKobe Bryant as being the equivalent of extremely high praise from anyoneelse. But where it is most interesting is in its focus on Nowitzki's longtimepersonal basketball guru, Holger Geschwindner. Advertisement The proprietor of a self-described “Institute for AppliedNonsense” in Bavaria, Geschwindner is a beguilingly eccentric German basketballlegend who reportedly once scored 100 points in a single game, a la WiltChamberlain, and applies a serious study of math and physics to basketballtraining. His intent is the creation, per the title of the film, of the perfectshot, with adjustments for angle and force based on angle and distance from thebasket. (Geschwinder's computer model also adjusts for heat and gravitationalpull, as he demonstrates for the filmmakers, with hypothetical locations forbasketball including the sun, moon, and Mars.) He learned the game from therepresentative sent by Germany to learn the basics of basketball from thegame's inventor, James Naismith, himself in preparation for the 1936 Olympics The angle of Geschwinder's unique perspective on the game,with his mythic connections to its very origin, could very well yield an entirefilm of its own, and it is by far the most interesting part of "Nowitzki: thePerfect Shot."The majority of the film is instead given over to the linearand more familiar story of Nowitzki's NBA career, which is, as above, a fairlyinteresting one in itself, but it's one characterized by consistency,diligence, and endurance rather than a more visually poetic form of dominance.His play itself is a frequent splendor to behold, in particular hisnow-trademark one-legged fall-away jump shot, which is not only utterlyimpossible to defend but also looks like nothing ever seen on Earth, kind oflike a runaway genetic experiment involving Larry Bird and a flamingo. DirectorSebastian Dehnhardtfrequently nods in the directionof Nowitzki's uniqueness—the one-legged jump shot is, at least, mentioned—andincludes Holger Geschwindner as often as possible. The “as possible,” though,is tempered by the film's presentation, which is virtually indistinguishablefrom an in-house Dallas Mavericks PR video. This is not to say that theexperience of watching it is unpleasant; if anything the opposite is true to afault. The entire film is concerned with pleasantly depicting Dirk Nowitzkibeing pleasant to everyone as he works out and plays basketball and struggleswith the burden of expectations conferred upon NBA stars, to wit, the winningof championships and dispelling any assessments of one's game as being “soft.”He faces adversity in the form of a couple painful playoff losses, but in thename of all that is pleasant, the story has a happy ending, when the Maverickswin the 2011 title! The only thing resembling a hiccup in this overallgolly-shucks (which, to clarify, is not a pejorative, it's just the way sportsmovies are) saga is the odd 2009 episode where Nowitzki's then-fiancee wasarrested for fraud, but the movie breezes right past it. There's no reason notto, as it has nothing to do with anything Nowitzki himself did, but if anythingthe perfunctory nature of the inclusion throws the linearity of the narrativefor a brief loop; Dehnhardt could have just as easily not mentioned it at all. Advertisement