“Stations of the Cross” is an experiment in film formalismthat uses strict artistic techniques to mirror the restrictions of religiousfundamentalism. It is a story told in 14 shots, each one meant to represent oneof the 14 stations of the cross of the title. Most of the shots are static;most of the shots are from a distance almost reminiscent of the distance oftableau of The Last Supper. The lack of close-ups, editing, etc. makes for afilm that can feel stiflingly cold. It starts cold, it gets freezing—as if weare watching people on display in a museum. Despite that emotional distance, the film is carriedby young actress Lea van Acken, forced to really emotionally deliver given thelack of camera tricks some actors use as a crutch. Advertisement “You alone areresponsible for your souls and your neighbors.” That’s a lot to ask of ateenager. And yet that’s what the local parish priest says in the opening sceneof “Stations of the Cross,” after the title card reads, “1. Jesus is condemned to death.” Is young Maria (Lea Van Acken)condemned in this opening scene? As the Priest instructs a table of teenagersthat music is the devil’s tool and that they all must sacrifice not justmaterial possessions but the evil in their hearts to allow God in, Mariaclearly struggles. Left alone at the end of the scene as these teenagers headoff to the spiritual battlefield of everyday life, she looks like a youngperson about to make a very bad decision, even if it is the name of the Lord. In the second scene of “Stations of the Cross,” we meetanother well-intentioned but misguided force in Maria’s life, her domineeringmother (Franziska Weisz), a woman who constantly belittles her daughter anddemeans any attempt at happiness that does not revolve around family or church.Maria is a smart, sweet, caring girl who we essentially watch destroy herselffrom within due to unwavering fundamentalism and a desire to please church,family, and her God, but never her own needs. People come into frame who looklike they could pull Maria from the rising waters—a boy who takes an interestin her, her supportive au pair, even a doctor who recognizes inevitable tragedy—butthey are pushed away by doctrine or parental force. Maria ignores her own well-being—instructed to do so reallyin that opening scene when she’s “condemned to death” to help save herself andthose she loves. There are early references to past illnesses that may havereturned. She won’t let anyone even touch her to see if she had a fever. There’san excellent centerpiece scene in which Maria refuses to do gym exercises atschool as long as the teacher keeps playing demonic pop music (Roxette’s “TheLook,” if you’re curious about Satan’s playlist). The conversation between Maria,her teacher and her classmates becomes a study in tolerance and the rippleeffect of forcing religious choices upon others. Advertisement There are times when “Stations of the Cross” makes its pointwith a bit too much bold print and underlining, crossing over into audienceabuse as we watch a mother yell at her daughter at a family dinner and thedaughter cry for what feels like a lifetime. I couldn’t shake the feeling thatthe film is preaching to those who have already learned the inherent dangers ofstrict doctrine, although the reason it never sinks too deeply into that pit isthe fact that Bruggemann never judges Maria or her decisions. He sure judgesthe religious institution that paves the road she chooses to take, but he’sbalanced enough to never judge her for going down it. In the end, the formalism of “Stations of the Cross” wouldn’twork at all without the work of van Acken, a very talented young lady who’s notonly in every scene, she’s often all there is to every scene. “#5” is just aprofile shot of Maria in confession, something that would terrify some youngactresses. Van Acken’s smart, subtle decisions keep Maria from becoming littlemore than a symbol or even the caricature she could have become. Even when “Stationsof the Cross” becomes almost overwhelmingly depressing, we can’t turn away fromMaria. It is in the humanizing of her plight that “Stations of the Cross” findsits power. It’s a hard movie to leave behind. As it should be.