In “Boulevard,” the lateRobin Williamsplays a man with a secret. His character, Nolan, has muted this piece of hislife for over a half-century, as assisted by suburban monotony and a peacefulmarriage. His cubicle at the bank boxes him in during the day. At night, hiswife (Kathy Baker) has a peaceful distance from his personal life, as theysleep in separate bedrooms. Even his best friend, Winston (Bob Odenkirk), seemsto be a good one, but not someone that pays close enough attention to trulyunderstand his friend's life. Advertisement "Boulevard" is a movie about choosing truth,regardless of how many years may have been lost to a lie. The catalyst forNolan's choice is his father's cardiac arrest. After leaving the hospital,Nolan drives down a shadier street of town, and picks up a young maleprostitute named Leo (Roberto Aguire). They go to a motel, but Nolan isn'tpaying for anything sexual; he just wants to talk, to interact with someonethat might listen. The two continue to see each other, of which Nolan is insistentupon paying for his time. Nolan isn’tclear about his intentions, which alarms Leo, but he isn’tmalicious about them. Talking to Leo makes Nolan happy, as does the idea oftaking care of him. Nolan wants a true connection with a human being. As Nolanspends more time sneaking out to see Leo, the charade of his public life beginsto unravel.Williams and director     Dito Montiel    are in tune with a pervadingsense of tenderness, as the movie distinctly ruminates on connection, not love.Writer     Douglas Soesbe    does something that's nothing short of miraculous withthe presentation of its secret, by stripping it of its sensationalism, andshowing how big a deal it is despite the smallness of Nolan's character. Thedialogue within Nolan's moments of accepting himself provides for revelatoryscenes, especially the spacious conversation between him and his wife, as sheexpresses her awareness of the situation, but her own resistance to see itchange. Montiel's usual dramatic instincts, to go big and brash, are aptlymuffled for the most part, except for the couple moments of false intensityinvolving Leo's abusive pimp Eddie (     Giles Matthey    ).With dramatic scripts, Williams was a hushed force that offeredsomething painfully human, and a talent who would go to the darkest depths withdirectors who had the right story (ex.Bobcat Goldthwait’s"World's Greatest Dad," the definitive Williams role in the 2000s).The ingredient he brings most to "Boulevard" is heartfelt empathy,which makes this portrayal heroic. In such a peaceful performance, Williams achieveslayers with muted expressions of angst or defeat, and a confident stillness. Inhis everyman presence, which he achieves before even stepping into the movie'sgeneric suburban setting, Williams is as gentle as he is compassionate forthose who live with their secrets daily. Just like with his rambunctiouscomedy, he plays this character as an accomplished entertainer with nothing tolose.Advertisement"Boulevard" is not just the transformation of Nolan,but that of a director. Montiel successfully removes himself from the NYC rootshe has reflected upon so often in his films that star male aggression, and henow takes to nondescript suburbs, with an entirely internal character. Adisplay of his potential with bare bone filmmaking elements, along with hisable to diversify the energy within his films, “Boulevard” proves a personal success.The end of the film, which is uncharacteristically upbeat, istough. Regardless as to how much one may like the movie, it’s abittersweet conclusion. “Boulevard” hasthe unfortunate mark in history as being the last on-screen appearance forWilliams, and it provides the ending to his on-screen life that tragicallydoesn’t parallel that of his off-screen one. His soulful work hereleaves his career feeling very incomplete; for a few more misguided filmchoices that he might have made, as popular entertainers always do, there wouldalso be some very special performance vehicles, as with "Boulevard."And they wouldn’t have just displayed proof of his timeless, humble grandeur.They could have done some good for us, too.