This movie opens with a clearly on-less-than-great-termscouple of parents trying to corral their kids into a car. Dad Doug (DavidTennant) is negotiating with his youngest girl, the adorable and strange Jess(Harriet Turnbull) about the “friends” she can bring with her; one of them, itseems, is a brick. “Her best friends are stones now?” Doug indignantly asksestranged wife Abi (Rosamund Pike) shortly after. “Have you spoken to anybodyabout it?” The ever-exasperated Abi rolls her eyes and shoots back “Who? Ageologist?” Advertisement Good one, and “What We Did On Our Holiday,” written anddirected byAndy HamiltonandGuy Jenkin, is replete with zingers, a qualitynot to be disdained in a family comedy of miscommunication. Doug and Abi are onthe outs, planning to divorce, but reuniting for a weekend to visit Doug’s kinin the Hebrides. Doug’s dad Gordie (Billy Connolly) is an ex football starwhose latest birthday will probably be his last. As Gordie eventually explainsto Abi and Doug’s oldest child, the curious and analytical tween Lottie (EmiliaJones): “You’ve heard of cancer? Well I’ve got that.” Doug and Abi aredetermined to keep up appearances not just for Gordie but the children’s sake.But of course the three children (the middle one is a cheekily ingenuous boy,Mickey, played by Bobby Smallridge) see right through their ever-feudingparents’ lies. Doug and Ari’s feckless, near-constant deceptions are counteredby Gordie’s honesty. The exceptionally warm Connolly does great things with hisrole as a long-haired patriarch determined to go out of his life his way,despite the efforts of his other son, rich financier and utter twit Gavin(Billy Miller), to stage a white elephant of a party for him. Once Abi and Doug finally get their brood to Scotland,Gordie absconds to a beach with the three kids, where he sets an example ofhonesty that they eventually take to a bit of an extreme. “Every human being onthis planet is ridiculous in its own way,” Gordie reflects to Lottie, going onto say that the point of life is to love them not just in spite but because ofthat. The movie is inspired by the BBC sitcom “Outnumbered,” also a Hamiltonand Jenkin effort, in which two parents were pitted against three children anda lot of the dialogue was improvised in a “kids say the darnedest things”spirit. “Holiday” does a good job of making the young characters look terrificallyspontaneous, and the adult cast is rife with expertise: Pike is both frazzledand dry, while Tennant proves that his wide-eyed intensity works as well as acomic tic as it does when he’s playing an existentially tortured bloke in moreserious fare. The movie’s storyline takes an eccentric turn when the kidsdecide to honor Gordie’s wish for a “Viking funeral.” While Hamilton and Jenkinprovide a lot of gentle moments of poignancy, and the cinematography of theScottish countryside (shot by Martin Hawkins) goes a long way in selling themovie’s the-simple-pleasures-of-life-are-best philosophy, “Holiday” wiselysticks to its frantic-but-not-grotesque-farce guns throughout its tidy 95minutes. It wears not just its Britishness but its relative good taste on itssleeve: unlike its U.S. counterparts, there’s nary a poop or fart joke inevidence in this domestic comedy. It’s not what you’d call “major” cinema, butit’s a breezy entertainment, particularly if you’re a fan of one or more of thecast members. Advertisement