Filmmakers have struggled with the definition of what itmeans to be a human being for decades. Are you merely a product of flesh andbone? Do you believe there’s a soul? Or is your mind the most definitive aspectof your existence? FromRod Serlingto “Seconds” to silly body switch movieslike “Freaky Friday,” the consideration of the human body as a shell, one thatcan house a persona other than your own, has fascinated some of our mostcreative voices. And when it was announced that a visually striking andphilosophically ambitious filmmaker likeTarsem Singh(“The Fall”) was going towade into these waters himself, there was reason for notable optimism. Whichmakes the result, “Self/less,” all the more frustrating. "Self/less" is a bland, genericproduct that almost defiantly refuses to explore the complex issues which itraises, perhaps in an effort to appeal to a wider audience. The narrative outlineof “Self/less” is a philosophical theme park, readymade for daring, complexfilmmaking. And Singh and his writers never go on any of the rides. Advertisement Damian Hale (Ben Kingsley) is an uber-wealthy New Yorkbusinessman, the kind who appears to have chosen to cover his entire, lavishapartment in gold one day, simply because he was bored. Sadly, all the wealthin the world cannot defeat the cancer that’s killing him, nor can it reunite abitter man with an estranged daughter (Michelle Dockery). Hale receives amysterious business card that promises him a future that his body cannot. Hemeets with an obviously nefarious scientist/CEO named Albright (Matthew Goode),who tells Hale about “shedding,” a process that allows someone to discard theirbroken body for a new, genetically grown one, for a cost of only $250 million.Hale signs up. After going through a visually dull process (and here’swhere you start to wonder why Tarsem didn’t make different aesthetic choices,and not for the last time), Hale wakes up in the body ofRyan Reynolds. He’sgiven a new name—Edward—and relocated to New Orleans, where life appears to beexactly what he wanted. He drives a fast car, plays basketball, and even makesa new friend (Derek Luke). The one hitch is that Edward has to take a littlered pill at the same time every day or risk hallucinations, migraines and evendeath. After missing just one pill, Edward has a detailed hallucination thatfeels more like a flashback, and discovers that this body was not grown in alab. It belonged to a family man who sacrificed himself to pay for treatmentsto save his daughter’s life. He finds Edward’s family, including anexpectedly-startled wife played byNatalie Martinez, and learns the truth abouthis new life, a truth that Albright and his suited cronies will do anything tokeep secret. Clearly, this is thematically dense stuff, from the way the 1% usesthe desperate needs of the poor to their own advantage to a reliance onpharmaceuticals to stay happy and alive. Yet every time “Self/less” feelslike it’s going to actually explore one of those themes and give them more thanlip service as plot details, it pulls back to standard, genre fare, both narratively and visually. “Self/less”is one of those depressing affairs that gets less and less interesting as itprogresses. The opening scenes of opulence in Hale’s penthouse have a strongvisual aesthetic—empty rooms like empty minds waiting to be filled—but thatdisappears in the seemingly neverending second act, during which “Self/less”sags and never recovers, feeling at times more like a failed cable TV pilot than a film. With its hallucinations, questions of identity, and philosophicalresonance, it’s simply inexplicable that “Self/less” becomes as visuallyengaging as a “CSI” spin-off. Perhaps Tarsem was reined in by producers whodidn’t want their “Ryan Reynolds Vehicle” to become “Artsy,” but they made afatal error. At 116 minutes, and with a narrative that telegraphs every twist ahalf-hour before it arrives, “Self/less” needed a visual language that it justdoesn’t have. Advertisement And that lack of personality isn’t replaced by anything.Reynolds isn’t bad but he seems to have been directed to play Edward just atick north of bland, which isn’t exactly his strong suit. Someone here neededto realize that a movie this conceptually crazy needed to be fun. Movies like “Face/Off”are enjoyably ridiculous in large part due to the fact thatNicolas Cage, JohnTravolta andJohn WooKNEW they were ridiculous, laughing and winking at theaudience throughout. “Self/less” is played on a straight line, never nearly asmuch fun as it could or should have been. Who knew immortality could be soboring?