For onebrief, shining moment during the early part of this year, horror film buffs whohad grown weary of unnecessary remakes, found-footage foolishness and whateverthat "Ouija" nonsense was supposed to be had reason to believe thatthe genre was at long last pulling itself out of its rut thanks to the arrivalof such instant classics as "The Babadook," "A Girl Walks HomeAlone at Night" and "It Follows." Alas, this brief grace perioddid not last and things depressingly returned to normal via the likes of"The Lazarus Effect," "Unfriended" and the ghastly"Poltergeist" revamp. And yet, even those clunkers look like modernmasterpieces when compared to "The Gallows," a ridiculous fusion of"Paranormal Activity" and "Glee" that is so incredibly dumbthat it is almost, but never quite, scary to behold. Advertisement Twentyyears ago, a small Nebraska high school was rocked by tragedy when an accidentduring the performance of "The Gallows"—apparently the play thatlesser schools put on when they cannot afford the rights to "TheCrucible"—resulted in the onstage hanging of lead actor Charlie Grimille.For reasons that are never adequately explained, the school has chosen tocommemorate this tragic anniversary by restaging the play, possibly with theoriginal choreography. The problem this time around is that, for reasons thatare never adequately explained (a phrase I will stop using at this point lest Iwind up applying it a lot), the lead role has been filled by Reese Houser(     Reese Mishler    ), a top jock who seems to have been lured into the part due tohis secret crush on the school's literal drama queen, Pfeifer Ross (PfeiferBrown). Alas, he is a terrible actor, barely knows his lines and with only onemore day until opening night, it appears that the show is headed for disaster.To saveReese from embarrassment and to stick it to those theatre-loving nerds bigtime, Ryan (Ryan Shoos), his deeply irritating best pal, hits upon a foolproofidea—the two of them will sneak into the school that night and trash the set,thereby causing the show to be scuttled for good. Along with cheerleaderCassidy (Cassidy Gifford, daughter of Kathie Lee), the two sneak in but areinterrupted in their vandalism by Pfeifer. Moments later, their wreckage has been mysteriously repaired andwhen they try to leave, the four find all the doors locked. As they try to figure a way out of theschool, it transpires that something is in there with them slamming doors,moving about in the shadows and attempting to pick them off one by one. Has thespirit of Charlie Grimille returned to haunt those who would dare restage theplay that cost him his life or is there a real person lurking about to makesure that the show does not go on? Assomeone with a certain affinity for whatRoger Ebertused to refer to as DeadTeenager movies and who also was a theater major in college, I admit that Iwent into "The Gallows" with a certain amount of amused curiositythat wound up being completely squandered before the running time hit thedouble-digit mark. While I recognize that quibbling about logic in a film ofthis type is a losing proposition at best, the writer/director duo Travis Cuff& Chris Lofring set things up in such an insultingly lazy manner that eventhe most basic narrative questions are simply ignored. Why is there seeminglyno media coverage of an event—the revival of the seemingly haunted play—thatwould almost assuredly inspire it in real life? Why is it that almost none ofour heroes have even the slightest knowledge of the history of that doomed production,especially when it appears that there may be more to the participation of oneof them than meets the eye? Heck, we don't even get an explanation of how thebotched hanging stunt was supposed to work in the first place and how it wentwrong. Advertisement The geographyof the film is similarly messed up—the school seems to have an unlimitedsupply of endless corridors and hidden rooms and it is virtually impossible tofigure out where anyone is supposed to be at any given moment, even more sosince everything is shot in near-darkness. The characters that we aretheoretically supposed to be rooting for are singularly uninteresting andunsympathetic throughout—you can't wait for them to get bumped off—and thenewcomers playing them, for the most part, are unable to make them stand out inany particular way. The lone exception here is Ryan Shoos as the obnoxiousfriend, who turns in one of the most annoying, nails-on-the-chalkboardperformances in a long while—not only do you want to see him taken out as soonas possible, you want to see him go out a la the hapless babysitter in"Jurassic World." To make matters all the more excruciating, this isanother one of those found-footage deals and one of the least effective uses ofthat tiresome gimmick to date—not only is it almost impossible to decipherwhat is going on in an individual scene, the question of who exactly isshooting most of the footage will prove to be too much of a distraction formost viewers. "TheGallows" is idiotic and borderline unwatchable but there are a couple ofthings about it that do make me smile to think of them. I liked the touch ofthe "secret" unlocked door to the theater—I think that every highschool and college theater has a similar point of after-hours entry that peopleuse from time to time. While I cannot in good conscience recommend the film tomembers of high school theater departments, I will say that groups that dochoose to watch it will probably bust their collective gut laughing at it.Finally, I am amused by the notion that, if only for appearances sake, KathieLee Gifford will one day find herself watching it as well. My recommendation toher in this regard? Forgo a mere glass of wine and bring the entire box alonginstead—you are probably going to need it.