A courtroom drama usually offers at least some of thefollowing elements: a fiery orator, high stakes, an evolvingcase, thrilling arguments and some degree of resolution—even if it’s not a happy one.“Court" offers none of these elements. The oration from the lawyers practically dares you tostay awake. The case itself is jaw-dropping in its staidness. The arguments areroutinely filled with jargon, and this jargon may even be irrelevant. For mostof its 116-minute runtime, a resolution appears quixotic.Advertisement And yet, Indian filmmakerChaitanya Tamhane’s firstfeature is a masterpiece, one of the best films of the year. How did thishappen? “Court” deals with an aged Marathi folk singer livingin Mumbai, Narayan Kamble, who’s arrested on a bizarre accusation. The statealleges that a song he performed drove a manhole cleaner to commit suicide, and that he is therefore responsible for the man's death. The case comes to the attention of VinayVora (Vivek Gomber), a well-educated and well-off lawyerwho picks up Narayan’s fight. He’s up against the public prosecutor Nutan(Geetanjali Kulkarni), who couldn’t be bothered with the plight of Narayan orthe logic of the case. Together they’re in front of Judge Sadavarte (PradeepJoshi), who doesn’t care for anything except upholding his archaic morals andinterpretation of the law. In the funniest scene in this surprisingly funny film, the Judge refuses to hear a case because the plaintiff, a woman,is wearing a sleeveless top. There are times when it feels as though the real accused in "Court" are India's judicial system and society. Nearly 60 years ago,Sidney Lumetlocked the “12 Angry Men” of a jury inside one room. The setting’s claustrophobic nature wouldhelp viewers understand why people’s lives deeply influenced how they interpreted the law and cold, hard facts. Tamhane takes the opposite means to achieve asimilar end. His script, carefully structured but not gaudily so, considers thecharacters’ lives outside the courtroom as essential to comprehending what they do once inside it. This approach is integral to themovie’s humanistic tone. No character is a villain hell-bent on destroyingNarayan’s life. They are all just cogs in an unfair machine. The viewers follow Vora as he attends a posh club withhis bourgeois friends, and shops for cheese and wine without looking at theprice tags. Clearly, he can afford to pick up a case so obviously headedtowards a dead-end, and no wonder he continues speaking English in thecourtroom even though it wins him neither favor nor friend. “Court” also showsNutan for who she might be in real life: a competent woman who tries to juggleher professional duties with her responsibilities as a mother and wife, allwhile working for a promotion. Forget ignoring the price tags, for her evenusing olive oil in cooking is a matter of fantasy to be discussed with commutebuddies. Advertisement There is a moment where it feels like “Court” could end.It seems to have made a point. The viewer has understood what this universeentails. And the filmmaking builds up to a memorable closing shot. But then thefilm goes on. Over a coda that’s perplexing at first, Tamhane unveils his trumpcard. With a series of scenes that are remarkable in their assuredness, heunderlines, emboldens, and italicizes the purpose of his film. The acting elevates the words on the page and makesthem sing. Gomber, who also produced the film, brings a sense of lumbering calmto his affluent lawyer character. At one point, after being shockingly remindedof what a regressive environment he lives in, he breaks down. It’s not just hissadness that’s moving; it’s his exhaustion. Kulkarni is pitch-perfect as amiddle-class Maharashtrian woman. The way she reads out the list of chargesagainst the accused in fluent but monotonous English, only to segue intoMarathi when she’s done, is hilarious in its accuracy. Some cast members wereuntrained, non-professional actors. In the case of the woman who plays thedeceased’s widow, it’s eerie how unaffected the scene is before you realizethat it’s reality. (The woman is widowed in real life. Her husband was amanhole worker.) The seemingly interminable drawl of the case is echoed in the filmmaking style, with cinematographer Mrinal Desai utilizing lengthy, static takes. Scenes continue a few seconds or even minutes after the point where other filmmakers might have opted to cut. This ends up adding to the film’s authenticity; the action doesn’t feel directed by force as much as it feels captured by fluke. It’s also a showcase for the impeccable detailing in the film’s environment. As one character gets assaulted outside a restaurant, the framing allows you to see the security guard escape into the safety of the building, while the unending take forces you to watch what he’s successfully hiding from.That, perhaps, is why “Court” ends up being a great courtroom drama: it treats the audience as both witness and jury and lays out a sprawling argument for them to ponder over. It’s hard to shake this one off long after the credits have rolled.