2001’s “Joe Dirt” didn’t make much of an impact when it wasreleased. The comedy about a Southerner so clichéd that he had a mullet sewedto his skull was generally reviled by critics, but it did make back its meagerbudget, and then something interesting happened. Largely through regular cableairings, “Joe Dirt” built a fan base, and the film made that difficult leapfrom forgotten oddity to cult comedy. According to stories, it would trend sohighly on Twitter when it aired on cable that people who make money offreviving projects like “Joe Dirt” took notice. And so starDavid Spadegot thejug band back together in admittedly impressive numbers, hiring the originalwriter,Fred Wolf, to write and direct a sequel, and castingBrittany Daniel,Christopher Walken,Dennis Miller,Adam Beach, and more in returning roles. Theresult, “Joe Dirt 2: Beautiful Loser,” premieres on Sony’s web platform Crackletoday. (The service is also available on a number of Blu-ray players and gamingconsoles if you want to access it through your television.) Advertisement The unusual history of “Joe Dirt 2” makes it a tough film toreview. If you’re one of those people who watched the original every time itwas on cable (and found something to tweet about it), “Beautiful Loser” contains enough callbacks to the original tosatisfy. Anyone else should probably look elsewhere for their comedy. “Joe Dirt2” is wildly inconsistent, often feeling like it was slapped together quicklybefore someone changed their mind and put a stop payment on the financingcheck. Especially at the beginning, the tone of the film is often one of barely trying as you can see Spadeand his cohorts practically winking at the camera and saying, “Can you believe this is happening?” Sometimes the cast doesn’t seem so sureit’s a real movie, and, especially for the first act, it feels like they shoteverything in one take, and left them all in the movie. Maybe they were afraidto yell cut. “Joe Dirt 2: Beautiful Loser” doesn’t just play on nostalgiafor a 14-year-old comedy but for classic films of multiple generations,including references to “Back to the Future,” “Forrest Gump,” “Diner,” “TheSilence of the Lambs” and “It’s a Wonderful Life.” It’s a hodge-podge of moviereferences, jokes about Southerners, surreal asides and lots and LOTS ofphysical humor—there’s a 15-minute bit about Joe’s balls. Halfway through,Dennis Miller says “This is Joe Dirt 2and why have we overwritten this?” He makes a good point. Even recapping the nonsensical, surreal plot is difficult.Joe Dirt (David Spade) sits on a bench, recounting to a stranger how he losthis wife (Brittany Daniel) and three daughters. The story starts simply enough,and with a bit of down-home charm in the narrative of a guy who “Went to the school of hard knocks andgraduated with honors.” Dirt has a self-esteem issue, thinking his meagerintelligence and professional aspirations will force him to lose his family.One day, his wife and daughters catch Joe’s fellow loggers taking turns fartingon him (yes, you read that right), and Joe’s shame grows even stronger. When atwister literally sends him back in time, Joe has to fight his way back to hisfamily. Advertisement From here, “Joe Dirt 2: Beautiful Loser” gets decidedlystrange, and not in a creative, surreal way, but in a “first draft in which youput all of your ideas” way. I’m not the kind of person who thinks a film like “JoeDirt 2” needs to fit together narratively, but it doesn’t feel like any effortto even try was expended here. And none of that would matter if it was simplyfunnier. There’s a line or two that works but they’re offset by dozens thatfall flat (and an undercurrent of homophobic jokes don’t help). And what’s trulydepressing is that Spade commits completely to the part. He’s more invested andengaged in this character than any other he plays in film. He just forgot towrite enough jokes for this very-long comedy, or to cast interesting peopleopposite him—no,Mark McGrathdoes not count. Again, the biggest problem isthat every joke goes on FOREVER. A bit in which Dirt meets a young LynyrdSkynyrd might have been funny if it was 10-15 seconds. Instead it’s about 5minutes. The whole movie operates under a “More is Funnier” principle, and weall know that’s just not true. Despite its unique, unpredictable path to existence, in the end,“Joe Dirt 2: Beautiful Loser” falls victim to the regular traps of the comedysequel. There’s a sense that comedians fall back on the chemistry of theirensemble and don’t put in the necessary effort to make an old joke sound newagain. Although in this case, it may be a joke you’ve forgotten.