Bad movies are common. Shockingly bad movies, ones that areso incompetently conceived and executed as to force one to question how theygot made, are less so, despite what Angry Film Twitter might have you believe. “Safelight”is a jaw-droppingly bad movie, a film that doesn’t have characters or a plot.It has mouthpieces who speak in platitudes and clichés, pushing forward througha predictable, depressing narrative that sounds like a flunked high schoolstudent’s attempt at creative fiction. To write off “Safelight” as just anothergeneric romantic teen drama about wounded souls who find healing in each other’sarms wouldn’t do justice to its baffling ineptitude. Advertisement “Safelight” is about the shy, crippled boy and the hookerwith the heart of gold who change each other’s lives. If you’re askingyourself, “Do they still make that movie?,” “Safelight” is here with an answer.Evan Peters(“American Horror Story”) stars as Charles, a bullied 17-year-oldwho works at a truck stop with a wisecrackingChristine Lahtiand, from thelooks of it, no actual truckers. Charles is drawn to the lone hooker who worksthis lonely locale, Vicki (Juno Temple), an 18-year-old with a violent pimpnamed Skid (Kevin Alejandro). Apparently when they were handing out tough pimpnames, he was absent. Charles' mom left when he was a baby. Charles’ dad is dying. Charles’ brother is dead. Charleswants to take photographs of the California lighthouses, something his siblingwas going to do before he died. “Hereally liked the idea of light guiding people home.” Yes, “Safelight” isone of those films in which every conversation and every action must play intothe arc of the healing-romantic-drama. Nothing registers as genuine. Peters andTemple have zero chemistry and writer/directorTony Aloupisdoesn’t even seeminterested in their romance, ignoring the sexual undercurrents that could haveformed a coming-of-age story for Charles and even dismissing the idea that Vickicould have found real love instead of the paying kind. He's too busy talking about lighthouses. Every opportunity forreal dramatic stakes in “Safelight” seems to have been considered and thenignored. And as Charles and Vicki get closer, “Safelight” gets less and lessgenuine. They’re all caricatures, from the pimp who cackles like a maniac tothe dying father with the sage advice for his shy son. Caricatures are bad enough, but even the tropes are poorlyexecuted here. The dialogue is forced, stilted and unnatural. At times, it’shard to believe performers like Temple and Peters, who generally make smartdecisions, could force this dialogue out of their mouths given the weirdrhythms of the piece. Imagine reading greeting cards in a dramatic scene. Itwouldn’t sound right coming out of your mouth. The cadence of normal speakingpatterns isn’t even here. Like the pictures that Charles takes of lighthouses, we’veseen “Safelight” before. And it was pretty boring then too. Charles actuallysays about his photography and people in general, “If you look at it long enough, you get to see what it’s really showingyou.” “Safelight” illuminates nothing. Advertisement