Gael GarciaBernal andAlice Braga, two performers ofconsiderable charisma, and even soulfulness, ought to make an exemplaryonscreen couple. You’d think. And the pair is certainly not wasted in “Ardor,”a visually sumptuous kind of contemporary eco-Western (sounds more complicatedthan it is, honest) from Argentine directorPablo Fendrik. But what chemicalreaction they try to roil never accelerates to a really satisfactory level. Braga plays the daughter of the owner of a large tobaccofarm. In the surrounding forest, a small group of mercenaries, three tetchybrothers, wander and loom and wait to strike. Out of the Amazon emerges Bernal,a largely silent and perhaps supernaturally blessed being. (A text at thebeginning of the film tells of pagan rituals performed in Latin America toprotect land from harm.) Disaster strikes in spite of the stabilizing presence ofthe tattooed, capable Bernal character, who’s never referred to by name but is called “Kai” in the film’s credits. During the disaster, which entails thedeath of the farmer and the abduction of Braga’s Vania, Kai lays back a littlemore than a conventional hero might be expected to. It’s part of the enigma ofwho he is, we suppose, eventually. But soon Kai is on the trail of Vania andher captors. The bros, whose interplay is pretty macho-rote (the older brotherfeeds the most potentially trigger-happy one multiple bromides about how onebecomes a man) are in the hire of wannabe land grabbers and their deforestationefforts. Kai is shown to be not just for Vania, but for the land and all itscreatures: at one point he’s seen meditating in a particularly lush part of theforest while a wild jungle cat placidly gazes upon him. Advertisement Soon Kai is freeing Vania, tricking the bad guys, anddeclining to kill, at least until he absolutely must. So what have we here?Some amalgam ofSergio Leone,Werner Herzog, and “Puma Man?” Not quite. Thefilm is beautifully shot by Julián Apezteguia, and boasts a few effective andauthentic-feeling scenes of jungle and tobacco field action. But Fendrik is alittle too insistent on taking the film into the mystic—the movie is repletewith seemingly unmotivated dissolves, which I suppose aim to create a feelingof expanding time, but just play as seemingly unmotivated dissolves. And theinterplay between Bernal and Braga, while smoldering and up to a certain pointsteamy, is also a bit on the humorless side: both actors look as if they’rebeing compelled to hold back their sparkle. Fendrik has a statement to makeabout nature in the balance. But the film itself falls short on two cruciallevels: it’s neither sufficiently profound nor intoxicating enough to justifyor transcend its self-seriousness. As good-looking as the movie and its starsare, “Ardor,” whose title refers to a literal state of burning, never managesto catch fire.