What arethey putting in the drinking water over at the headquarters of the Lifetimenetwork? First they offered viewers "A Deadly Adoption," a spoof oftheir usual melodramatic fare apparently made in secret with co-stars WillFerrell and Kristin Wiig that was so poker-faced in its comedic approach thatit proved to be nearly impossible to tell from the genuine article. NowLifetime Films, their theatrical offshoot, has given us "Lila &Eve," another film that features a couple of big-name stars—Viola DavisandJennifer Lopez—in a project not that far removed from what the networkairs on a daily basis. The difference between the two is that "A DeadlyAdoption" was supposed to be funny and got big laughs from how it drylymimicked the machinations of its inspirations while "Lila & Eve"is not supposed to be funny—indeed, the central topic is about as unfunny asone could possibly imagine—but nevertheless inspires huge laughs, albeit ofthe unintentional kind, thanks an idiotic screenplay and a supposedly"shocking" plot twist that even the most inattentive viewers shouldbe able to figure out within the first fifteen minutes or so, tops. Advertisement Davisplays Lila, a single mother in Atlanta whose world is shattered when her olderson, Stephon (Aml Ameen) is killed when he gets caught in the crossfire of adrive-by shooting. Barely able to take care of herself, let alone younger sonJustin (Ron Caldwell), and with the police seemingly uninterested in getting tothe bottom of what appears to be just another random shooting, Lila is at wit'send until she joins a support group for other mothers whose children have alsobeen murdered. It is here that she meets Eve (Lopez), a fellow group member whosits off to the side without ever participating, stalks off whenever she feelslike it without anyone noticing and who seems less interested in moving on thanin having her loss avenged by any means necessary. Naturally, Lila chooses herto be her sponsor, and one night, while engaging in some therapeutic homeredecorating (this is a Lifetime production, after all), they find a gun inJustin's bookbag, a discovery that horrifies Lila but inspires Eve to suggestthat they go out to look for someone with information regarding Stephon'skilling. Amazingly,the two do find someone with just the kind of knowledge that they are lookingfor but when he is inconsiderate enough to pull a gun on them, Eve shoots himdead and they flee. When it seems as if they have gotten away with it, thetwo start moving up the underworld chain of command in order to uncover whoordered the drive-by and to go full vigilante on anyone connected with thecrime. As the bodies begin piling up, Lila becomes increasingly unsure of therightness of their actions while Eve becomes bolder and more daring with eachsuccessive hit until a rift finally develops between the two of them and Evesuddenly disappears. Around this time, their actions pique the interest of boththe cop (Shea Whigham) assigned to Lila's case and a local crime kingpin (ReyHernandez) and it appears to only be amatter of time before one of them puts two and two together and figures out whois behind the killings. "Lila& Eve" is the latest in a long line of films about ordinary people wholose loved ones to horrible acts of violence and who take the law into theirown hands when the justice system fails them—a sub-genre broad enough toinclude the likes of "Death Wish" and "In the Bedroom," toname just a couple. Those two films in particular took the premise seriouslyand thoughtfully and elevated them above such ugly and debased crypto-fascistrevenge-porn fantasies as "An Eye for an Eye," "The BraveOne" and all the "Death Wish" sequels. "Lila &Eve" doesn't hesitate for a moment before heading down the latter paththanks to a screenplay by newcomer Pat Gilfillan that constantly seesawsbetween the stupid and the sickening as our heroines stalk and dispose of theirprey with startling ease. These moves have been depicted by director CharlesStone III in the most passionless manner imaginable—even though this wasalways intended to be a theatrical release, his approach to the material is asblandly formulaic as the weakest offerings on the tube. Instead of the rage,anger and emotional confusion this material should inspire in viewers, theywill mostly be veering between bad laughs and utter boredom. Advertisement Thenthere are the endings, of which I will be as circumspect in discussing aspossible, though more sensitive readers should consider this to be a SpoilerAlert for the following paragraph. As it turns out, the entire story isbuilding towards a shocking plot twist that introduces the final act and is meant tomake us reevaluate everything we have seen up to that point. The only problemto this is that the twist is so obvious and so lame that virtually everyonewill be able to pick up on it early on. This is followed by a final scene withthe support group that, without giving it away, may have sounded noble on paperbut which plays out in such an odious manner that most viewers will be appalledby the lengths that the filmmakers have gone to let their characters off thehook for their admitted crimes. Despite the film being simply awfulthrough and through, the usually excellent Viola Davis (who also served as aco-producer) does her damnedest to make something of her character and whilenot even her undeniable gifts make anything of it, it is oddly inspiring to seeher at least making the effort. Lopez, on the other hand, coasts through in aparticularly lackadaisical manner that is only partially explained by laterrevelations about her character. Students of film history will note that this is the secondtime that Davis and Lopez have appeared together in a movie—the first onebeing Steven Soderbergh's brilliant 1998 crime romp "Out of Sight."Needless to say, if you see only one Davis-Lopez joint this weekend, make itthat one and let "Lila & Eve" on its way to a permanent berth asa basic cable staple.