As someone tells Detective Go Gun-Soo (Lee Sun-Kyun), “You’ve got an interesting fate.” Thedirty cop’s “fate” is the subject of “A Hard Day,” an effective thriller inwhich sheer propulsion is the artistic driving force. And I don’t mean that ina negative way. It’s a film that feels like somethingLiam Neesonand JaumeCollet-Serra would devise for the unlikely action star a la “Non-Stop” or “RunAll Night.” If they're smart, they'll snatch up the remake rights while you're reading this. Like a Neesonvehicle, at its best, “A Hard Day” has a breakneck pace that allows one toeasily dismiss the more ridiculous, downright nonsensical aspects of its plot.Only occasionally will the eyes roll. For the most part, it works. Advertisement “A Hard Day” wastes no time at all on something as silly asset-up. Detective Go is driving home at night in the rain from his mother’sfuneral when someone steps out in front of his car. He plows into him, crackinghis windshield and leaving the victim in a pool of blood. The already-troubleddetective can’t take any more drama—the IA investigation going on at thestation is enough to raise his stress level—and so he stashes the body in his trunkand drives off. Of course, he turns a corner right into a drunk drivingcheckpoint, and the cops there become suspicious. What follows is a bizarrescene that should give you an idea what to expect from “A Hard Day” as someinept police work ends in pepper spraying and tasing. This is a dark comedythriller, the kind of film that doesn’t make social statements as much as seekto entertain for nearly two hours. Of course, Go’s day gets much worse before it gets better.He has a body to dispose of, and, as his mother’s casket is being prepared forburial, he has a brainstorm. Where better to hide a corpse than in a coffin?Problem solved, right? Again, writer/directorKim Seong-Hun’s twisted, smartsense of humor kicks in as the movement of the corpse from trunk to casketinvolves a half-dozen yellow balloons and a remote-controlled toy soldier. Icouldn’t even explain it. You just have to see it. Go makes it back to the station to discover that the guy hehit was wanted for murder, giving him that classic movie actor look of “this isnot going to end well” for pretty much the rest of the movie. The cops end up hunting for a man that’s already beenkilled in a hit and run by one of them. We haven’t really seen that before. Andthen Go gets the phone call. Someone knows about what he’s done. And he wantsthe body back in the worst way. “A Hard Day” is shot in a lot of tight close-ups, designedto raise tension, although the technique gets a bit overheated at times. Forthe most part, Lee Sun-Kyun takes advantage of the tight presentation and frenetic pace of the film.He’s forced to play frazzled and confused a lot—he’s not really ever incomplete control—but he does a good job at keeping us engaged, as does thewriter/director, who never lets up the pace on a film that could have easilydragged. Again, it’s reminiscent of films like “Run All Night” or “Non-Stop” inthe way it disguises narrative flaws through sheer momentum. It’s what youmight call a Propulsive Thriller. You’re supposed to just get swept away by theforce of it all. Don’t ask questions. Advertisement Looking a little deeper, I like that our morally shadyprotagonist is neither the smartest nor dumbest guy in the room. He makesplenty of mistakes. He thinks he’s way tougher than he is (there’s a great beatwhere his nemesis fakes being more hurt by him after he takes a few punchesthat tells you a lot about both characters) and comes off as practically a CoenBrothers leading man in his ability to take two steps back with every stepforward. It’s a bit sad that “A Hard Day” has about four endings, whichdamages its momentum to that point. The first one comes at around 90 minutesand would have made for a nice, tidy thriller. It has over 20 minutes to go.And there’s some great stuff in that final act, but it all feels a bit likeoverkill. Maybe the Neeson/Collet-Serra version can trim it down a bit.