DirectorJoshua Oppenheimer’s “The Act of Killing,” a mostunusual treatment of mass murder and the people who commit it, galvanized bothdocumentary audiences and filmmakers in 2013. Oppenheimer, a writer, activist,and conceptual artist, invited the perpetrators of ostensibly-anti-Communist,state-sponsored killings in 1960s Indonesia to reenact their deeds as heroicmovie scenes. The results, I myself noted at the time, were “bracinglyghastly,” and also disturbing in their deeper revelations. Advertisement Oppenheimer’s new film, “The Look of Silence,” is adeliberate companion piece to “Killing,” and it too is strong and upsetting.Its conceptual framework isn’t nearly as idiosyncratic as the previous film’s,and that could be to its advantage. Instead of working with multiple criminalsubjects, Oppenheimer settles in with the family of one victim. “Silence” tellsthe story of this man’s death—which, because of its circumstances, gained acertain symbolic weight with certain Indonesians over time—through the eyes ofhis younger brother, Adi, an optometrist in his early 40s who was born afterthe killings and was seen by his now very-aged parents as, if not a replacementfor their older child, a kind of proxy for him. The movie opens with Adi watching a television monitor,looking at footage in which an older man gleefully recounts a killing. “Iripped him open; his intestines spilled out.” A series of titles tells theviewer that over one million supposed “Communists” were murdered during theperiod of Indonesian turmoil, and that the “perpetrators still hold powerthroughout the country.” Oppenheimer and his cameras follow Adi as he travelsaround rural areas of his country, giving eye exams and prescribing glasses forseveral of his interview subjects, who confess their doings with often shockingnonchalance. Adi, who explains early on that “When I meet older people, I liketo hear about the past,” is an often cheerful, pragmatic fellow who enjoys alight-hearted relationship with his own daughter; when he watches the footageof confessed killers or listens in person to one-time thugs, his face takes ona cast of intense scrutiny, the look of silence to which the film’s titlerefers. In a sense, he teaches the viewer on the other side of the screen how toprocess these stories. And what appalling stories they are. “Drinking your victim’sblood is important, otherwise you’ll go crazy,” one old man tells Adi. Aone-time military man brags about trying to solicit a cruise to the U.S.A.after completing his killing labors; he’s earned such a thing, he says, because“We did this because America taught us to hate Communists.” In the school roomwhere one of Adi’s children is taught, a teacher explains to his charges thatthe “Communists” had to go because they were “cruel” and would mutilate thefaces of military Generals who wouldn’t cooperate with them, which is an interestinglittle fabrication. “So the communists weren’t cruel?” the child asks Adi lateron. It’s a tough question for many reasons, one being that in many, many cases, the “Communists” weren’t even Communists. Advertisement Almost as maddening and frightening as this material is theattitude adopted by some interviewees; “The wound has healed,” grumbles someonewho doesn’t want the murders brought up; the irony of someone who had a hand inperpetrating the wound pronouncing it “healed” is an exasperating one. Then there’sthe ex-military man who starts lecturing Adi: “Do the relatives of the victimswant this to start happening again?” he rumbles, quaking a bit. The real dangerthat Adi placed himself in is underscored by the film’s end credits:Oppenheimer’s co-director is called “Anonymous,” and there are over thirty moreacknowledgements of an “Anonymous” as the credits scroll down. The 2003 documentary “The Corporation” made much of the U.S.legal gymnastics that grant corporations a kind of personhood, along with attendantrights, and concluded that if a corporation were a person, it would be amalevolent sociopath. The portrait of Indonesia that emerges from “The Act ofKilling” and “The Look Of Silence” places the national character in a sort ofongoing psychotic fugue state. Post-Holocaust discourse frequently used thephrase “Never Again” as a slogan, specifically referring to persecution of theJews but also denoting a prohibition against barbarism; the events underconsideration in these films are dispiriting reminders that human progress inthis area has been meager at best.