Sometimes “lightweight” isn’t a pejorative. “Ant-Man,” thecomics-based superhero movie that’s centered around one of the more arguably goofy Marvel Comicscharacters (first prize has to go to a guy named Paste Pot Pete—and don’t ask)achieves its particular magic by keeping its proceedings almost as weightless asits shrunken-down hero. The movie, directed byPeyton Reed(“Down With Love,”“Bring It On”) and starringPaul Rudd, isn’t exactly or entirely fluffy, butit’s pretty damn agile, and as a result provides the most pure, uncomplicatedfun, and even joy, of any Marvel picture I’ve seen. Advertisement The movie opens in 1989, with a digitally de-aged MichaelDouglas strolling into an intelligence-gathering fortress and facing down somepowerful frenemies, among them Tony Stark’s dad (John Slattery), astill-lovely-in-middle-age Peggy Carter (“Agent Carter” to “Captain America”and TV fans) and new sneery dude Mitchell Carson (Martin Donovan).Douglas’ character, Hank Pym, has a red vial containing something called “thePym particle,” and SHIELD wants it, and Carson’s pretty insistent on the point.It doesn’t end well. This appetizer of backstory sets up not only the narrativefor this picture, but serves as the equivalent of, um, nation building for thelarger conceptual continuity of the MCU, which will beproviding the entirety of the United States’ entertainment content, if all goesaccording to plan, by the year 2025. The good news is that your enjoyment of this movie won’t bereliant on your getting various in-jokes and character references, even thoughthere are a fair number of them. What the movie delivers for most of itsrunning time is a surprisingly disarming amalgam of “The Incredible ShrinkingMan” and “Rififi” by way ofBrian De Palma’s first “Mission Impossible” movie,except withJules Dassin’s goofball element thrown back in the mix. Shortversion: The “Pym particle” makes the tiny-but-powerful Ant-Man suit operable;in the present day Hank’s too old to work it and too protective of his steelydaughter Hope (Evangeline Lilly) to permit her to put it on. So Hankelaborately recruits newly-sprung-from-prison hacker/cat-burglar Scott Lang(Paul Rudd) for a “job.” Said job involves putting a stop to megalomaniacalDarren Cross (a shiny-headed and deliberately-atrociously-outfitted CoreyStoll). Cross is an old protégé of Pym’s, a current employer of Hope’s, andhe’s about to make a multi-billion-dollar killing on a weaponized“Yellowjacket” suit that pilfers Pym’s technology. The stakes are high here, but they’re not as grandiose as theyare in most contemporary comic-book-based movies, where the fate of the entireworld if not the universe seems to be at stake every time. Yeah, Cross IS alunatic (messing with the sort of atom-manipulation that makes these suits workcan mess with your mind), and he does want to make an army of Yellowjackets,and his buyer, represented by the aforementioned Mitchell Carson, is none otherthan an outfit called HYDRA. But this movie doesn’t need to destroy wholecities to get its job done. Savvy, wise-cracking Scott wants to make it in the“straight” world so he can have more time with his daughter. The fact that hisex-wife now lives with a defensive cop (Bobby Cannavale) adds not justemotional dad-rival complications, but some plot twists as well. And afterCross smells some kind of rat in his system (it’s not a rat, incidentally, justa whole bunch of telepathically controlled ants), Scott’s lovable knuckleheadcriminal buddies—portrayed in varying shades of hilarity byMichael Peña, T.I. andDavid Dastmalchian—are obliged to get in on the action as well. Advertisement This is a lot of material for any movie to juggle, and it’salso competing with a crazy visual-effects element; the different sizes ofAnt-Man bring with them different worlds, and his interaction with ants has acrazy pop-art surreality, like a pulp reiteration of Dali’s imagery in “ThePersistence of Memory” and other insect-packed artworks. The script is creditedtoEdgar WrightandJoe Cornish, and then to Rudd andAdam McKay. Wright wasoriginally set to direct, and while I’m not one to play pick-the-authorialtouches (especially after only one viewing), I suspect quite a few of thevisual gags in this picture originated with his contributions. In any event,the movie Reed has directed offers a remarkably direct through-line; I keptwaiting, in dread, for a flashback explaining how the villain got that way, butit never came; instead, we find out what we need to know via dialogue andaction, which is very welcome. Despite the movie’s buoyancy, it manages toconvey Cross’s villainy and its gravity with an appropriate tone. It’sdelightful and almost miraculous the way this movie manages to work as a comicheist picture on a huge scale, and with a comic science-fiction picture blendedinto it…while managing to cohere to the whole, you know, Marvel thing. Even theusually dreaded training-montage sequence manages to unfold like a compellingdance number. Part of it has to do with the novelty of the training—it’s notmany movies that show its protagonist attempting to leap through a keyhole, orget a group of ants to pile sugar cubes into a cup of tea—but it’s also thecharacter work from Rudd, Lilly and Douglas. Also nifty is the size-mattershumor the movie works so deftly and unpredictably—there’s an iPhone-centeredjoke in the middle of a ridiculous (in a good way) climactic action sequencethat’s devilishly clever. As is customary with Marvel films, “Ant-Man” has morethan one ending—more than two, as it happens. My favorite was the second one, whichwill probably please thinkpiece writers and/or Evangeline Lilly fans, so I’msure you’ll hear about it soon. As for myself, I found myself grinning a bit atthe final promise “Ant-Man Will Return.”