Theoriginal "Sharknado" film was a profoundly silly bit of low-budgetbasic cable fodder that had two things going for it—a premise that was sostaggeringly goofy that one was compelled to tune in for at least a fewminutes, if only to confirm that such a thing actually existed, and the factthat it premiered at a time when absolutely nothing of note was going on in thepop culture firmament and the public was looking for some form of sillydistraction. The film became an instant culturaltouchstone, and the producers, striking while theiron was hot, quickly launched "Sharknado 2: The Next One" into production.Like most unnecessary sequels, this one was pretty much the same film as theoriginal, only with more cameo appearances from second-tier personalities and ashift to New York City that offered the sight of poorly rendered CGIsharks wreaking havoc on the Big Apple. The end results were pretty dumb—mostjokes are when they are told for a second time—but enough people tuned in to ensure theexistence of "Sharknado 3: Oh Hell No!," perhaps the first film title thatalso sums up the thoughts of anyone who comes across it while skimming the TVlistings. Advertisement While thefirst film had its goofball concept to sell it and the second had the notion ofsharks leveling the biggest city on Earth as its hook, it appears as if writerThunder Levinand directorAnthony C. Ferrantewere never quite able to settleon a single conceit this time around and instead elected to toss a bunch ofthem together in the hopes that something would stick. As the film opens,erstwhile surf bum-turned-hero Fin Shepard (Ian Ziering) is in Washington D.C.to receive the Medal of Freedom from the President (Mark Cuban) when asharknado drops in on cue and levels the city. This turns outto be only the prologue as the action shifts to the Universal Orlando Resort (abit of corporate synergy as tacky as the special effects) where Fin's wife,April (Tara Reed), and daughter Claudia (Ryan Newman) are waiting for him toarrive to help celebrate the latter's birthday. Alas, sharknados are popping all over what isdubbed "The Feast Coast" and as Fin makes his journey from Washingtonto Florida, he encounters bloodbaths at a military base and a NASCAR racebefore finally arriving just before the big attack at the park. Then the filmmakes its final shift as...you know, I am not even going to hint at it becausea.) it would probably involve a Spoiler and b.) you wouldn't believe me even ifI did tell you. Oh yeah,David Hassellhoff is heavily involved in this section as well and it ends withthe promise/warning of a "Sharknado 4" for good measure. Consideringthat it is a film that seems to have been designed solely to defy even thelaxest critical standards, the very idea of trying to write a review of"Sharknado 3" boggles the mind. For the most part, it is just anotherhelping of awkwardly-staged scenes involving people being attacked by creaturesthat look like Windows 95-era screen-savers while struggling to keep a straightface as they are being munched. Those with an advanced degree in dumb killerfish movies will find themselves amused by the parallels between this film andthe less-than-immortal 1983 epic "Jaws 3-D"—not only are bothludicrous third installments in shark-based franchises produced in part byUniversal Studios set mostly in a theme park, both debuted on July 22 to boot.This was also the infamous day that John Dillinger decided to get out of thehouse to see a movie—too bad "Manhattan Melodrama" didn't have ashark or we might have had something here. Advertisement As withthe previous films, the acting is pretty much besides the point, though I mustadmit thatTara Reiddeserves some kind of good sport award in regards to thecircumstances surrounding her penultimate scene, the one moment when the filmtruly succeeds in raising the bar for sheer insanity. Then there are the cameoappearances from a large number of B-list celebrities for whom the"Sharknado" series serves as the equivalent of the old"Cannonball Run" films by getting once-familiar faces off the streetsand in front of the camera again, regardless of the circumstances. This timearound, they include the likes ofBo Derek, Maria Menounos,Lou Ferrigno,Robert Klein, Jackie Collins (who has to introduce herself), virtually theentire "Today Show" gang (including Hoda and Kathie Lee, apparentlyworking for Muscatel), Penn & Teller,Frankie Muniz(who gets thecenterpiece death scene), Anthony Weiner and no doubt a few that I missed alongthe way. The two most notable appearances of the bunch are probably AnnCoulter, playing the vice-president (none too convincingly), and MichelleBachmann, playing herself (even less convincingly). Shockingly (SpoilerAlert!), neither one of them gets eaten by a shark which leads me to one of twoconclusions—either the filmmakers simply weren't smart enough to fullymaximize the resources they had on hand or even poorly designed CGI sharks ofthe sort seen here are smart enough to not even attempt to swallow anythingthat those two have to offer. Once again, I drift back to the question of how to review a movie that consciouslytries to be the dumbest and most implausible thing since the previous"Sharknado" film.  After muchthought, I am going to give it two stars because this marks a definite stepdown in quality from its predecessors that is only partly redeemed by somecheerful silliness. However, those of you who are unabashed fans shouldprobably add a star and those who have never had any use for them shouldsubtract one. Beyond that, my guess is that we will all pretty much forget theentire thing by the end of August and then we will meet up here again about ayear from now and do this all over again with "Sharknado 4."