This is a modestly-scaled and exceptionally craftedindependent film that is genuinely invested in its characters. Indeed, thewriter/directorBryan Reisbergis sufficiently talented and observant that youcannot fail to be convinced that the young people he depicts truly representthe class with which his film is concerned. They do not go to college to acquireculture, but to get a job, and when they have got one, as protagonist Craig(Harry Lloyd) does, in advertising apparently, they scamp it. They have nomanners, and are woefully unable to deal with any social predicament. Theiridea of celebration is to go to a stranger’s house and drink probably way morethan six beers. They will pick up cell phones that don’t belong to them andinitiate conversations with the stranger calling. They are scum. Advertisement Okay. I’ll stop. Perhaps some of you will recognize theabove as a pastiche of W. Somerset Maugham’s famous review of Kingsley Amis’groundbreaking 1950s novel “Lucky Jim.” While this bit of frippery on my partmay be useful in explaining my curmudgeonly attitude, as a reviewer of acertain age, toward a film about a twenty-something dude trying to “findhimself,” it’s also unfair. Not to “Big Significant Things,” but to bothMaugham and “Lucky Jim.” “Lucky Jim,” after all, is a comic masterpiece. And“Big Significant Things,” which has more in common with a more recent andlargely lesser novel called “Indecision,” is not. The movie begins in OxfordMississippi (announced in an attractive splashy postcard-like graphic, as arethe other locations of the film) at the site of the “World’s Largest CedarBucket.” An African-American young fellow is sitting near it, and in amblesCraig, who asks him to take a picture of him standing in front of the barrel,and peppers the kids with questions. “It’s a barrel,” the kid finally says,exasperated. By the end of the movie, one is apt to share his exasperation withCraig. And the movie’s less than an hour and a half long. Harry Lloyd looks a little like a very young AnthonyPerkins, and sometimes he’ll cock his head in a way that Norman Bates did whenhe felt a low-level social stress coming on. But Craig, while he’s engaged inall manner of deceit, never resorts to Norman’s extremes. He’s supposed to bein San Francisco, helping his future wife buy a place of residence. Instead,he’s ditched his old job a week early and embarked on a road trip in theAmerican South, visiting sites that advertises themselves as homes of theworld’s largest largely impractical objects. Giant cedar barrel, giant rockingchair, etc. As he explores cheap motels, catatonically listens to his carradio, makes cell phone calls to his best male friend unsuccessfully trying toinveigle him into meeting up somewhere, we are meant to find an affinity withhis restlessness. Craig’s a fellow who seems to have it made, but he’sobviously feeling trapped, and wants to run away. But he’s not sure of that,either. He begins to lose whatever sympathy he’s garnered when he’son the phone lying to his teeth to his affianced, and then makingpassive-aggressive advances to a free spirit girl from Norway which he willsubsequently (spoiler alert) decline to seal the deal on, as the currentparlance would have it. When he gets pissy with his girlfriend for making anoffer on a house without consulting him, she responds, “For the record, youcould have been here, but you’re not.” Conflicted male masculinity in American has certainly gottena lot more wussified sinceJack Nicholsonportrayed it in “Five Easy Pieces,”that’s for sure. Bobby Dupea was in many respects a thoroughly deplorablecharacter, but he sure as hell wasn’t wishy-washy. Craig is, and wishy-washylooks particularly bad on a lying weasel, which he also is. There’s a slightsense that Reisberg’s aware of this: even the people with whom Craig ostensiblygets along with on his journey tend to give him a fair amount of side-eye. Buthonestly, I think I’ve had enough of American Male Existential Crisis in film,period. Unless you’re as good as Antonioni (who, we should recall, treatedanxiety in BOTH GENDERS over the course of his career) you really shouldn’t bother.Or—here’s an idea—if you’re gonna make a film about an American Male InExistential Crisis, you ought to, in good faith, pledge your production trothto make two female-directed pictures about American Girls or Women or what haveyou. Let’s get a little variety going in this mofo, shall we? Advertisement