This movie opens at a logging camp, a setting little seen incontemporary cinema. Trees getting cut, woods getting shredded, in aformidable forest framed by intimidating grey sky. It’s the end of the workday, and the men are supposed to be coming in, but a supervisor talks into hiswalkie talkie; he’s not getting an answer from some workers, and he’s annoyed.“I won’t hesitate to lock you guys in for the weekend,” he says, and he gets noanswer, so he goes deeper in to the woods to investigate. Advertisement What he sees is not pleasant, and he’s not going to be ableto share his subsequent experience with anybody. “Dark Was The Night” is ahorror movie, a creepy and atmospheric and sometimes blood-soaked horror movie,and it’s got a good amount going for it. Even though it does split from thenovel logging-camp setting to something a little more generic, the small townof Maiden Woods, 90 miles south from the opening unpleasantness. Here, too, it’spretty grey, and folks aren’t exactly perky. The town sheriff Paul Shields(Kevin Durand) and his new deputy Donny Saunders (Lucas Haas), considered anovelty on account of his hailing from New York City (the picture was shotupstate) have their attention called to some unusual happenings—a cranky stableman’s missing horse most prominently—and eventually see a pattern forming. Apattern that suggests something otherworldly that’s doing a lot of killing. DirectorJack Hellershows a firm grasp of horror moviemechanics, laying on the shocks and the atmosphere with assurance and vitality.ScreenwriterTyler Hisel’s storyline, though, shows an equally firm grasp ofsome genre conventions that are a bit tired. Shields is estranged from his wifeSusan (Bianca Kajlich), seeming to share custody of their young son and quietlyrefusing Susan’s offer to seek counseling with him. It turns out that their problemsstem from the loss of another child (seen in family photographs wearing a redslicker that brings to mind “Don’t Look Now”) that Shields couldn’t prevent.This sets up a whole super-obviousself-blaming-taciturn-father-figure-finds-shot-at-redemption scenario. Donny’sgot his skeletons too. This is less tiresome than it might be on account of thesparse dialogue and the excellent acting from Durand and Haas, but it gave mesome qualms that I’d sooner not have experienced early on in the picture."Dark Was the Night" does, deliberately, build to a tense andsometimes jump-from-your-seat scary climax which finds most of the small town’sresidents holed up in the local church, trying to nail down what has by thistime been pretty firmly established as a bonafide monster stalking the localwoods. And the quest is, it turns out, made more engaging by the guilt andself-doubt experienced by its main characters. As for the creature itself, itcould have been pretty ridiculous, but a combination of smart effects design (Ibelieve Danny Shinwoong Kang is the responsible effects person) and cinematicdiscretion makethe damn thing work. And so, too, does the movie itself.Advertisement