How do we process unimaginable betrayal? How do we overcomethe kind of events that forever alter the trajectory of a life we sodesperately want back? These are just two of the questions addressed byChristian Petzold’s masterful “Phoenix,” a film that firmly cements itsdirector as one of the most impressive working today. With echoes of “Vertigo,”and a deeply confident visual language, Petzold’s film resonates long after itsperfect ending. This is a riveting piece of work that never loses sight of itshuman story while also serving as a commentary for how an entire country dealswith tragedies like war. A film this satisfying on every level—one that can beenjoyed purely for its narrative while also providing material for hours ofdiscussion on its themes—is truly rare. Advertisement “Phoenix” opens with a face profiled in darkness. It is theface of Lene (Nina Kunzendorf), a woman driving a bandaged and bloodiedpassenger back to Berlin. Her face has been badly damaged, but she is asurvivor of a concentration camp. After a brief encounter at a checkpoint, thepair drives further and headlights fill the screen before the title comes up.This story will clearly be one of darkness to light, even if it’s a light thatsometimes blinds you. We learn that the passenger is Nelly Lenz (Petzold’scollaborator,Nina Hoss), a German-Jewish nightclub singer, who, from theappearance of photographs and discussions with friend Lene, had a happy life. Shewas married to a handsome, confident man named Johnny (another Petzold regular,Ronald Zehrfeld). On October 4th, Johnny was taken in forquestioning by the SS. Two days later, he was released, and Nelly wastransported to a concentration camp. Did Johnny betray his wife’s Jewishbackground? Clearly. And yet Nelly refuses to believe it. She wants her oldlife back. And that means denial that her husband was and is a self-servingmonster. After her plastic surgeon advises her that she can look like anyoneand start a new life, she tells him, “Iwant to look exactly like I used to.” She is defiantly, stubbornly in denialabout what has happened to her. Over Lene’s objections, Nelly returns to Berlin, seeking outJohnny. She is a shattered woman in a city of rubble. She tells Lene, “I no longer exist.” The relationship,the friends she now sees only in pictures, even the city she once lived in—they’reall gone. She finds some semblance of familiarity in Phoenix, the nightclubthat literally looks like an oasis in ruins. It’s like a dream that people findamidst the rubble of a bombed-out city. And that’s where she finds Johnny. Hegrabs her one night. He has a plan. He needs someone to pretend to be his deadwife, so he can claim her inheritance as there’s no evidence that his wife isdead. “You have to play my wife.” Andthe parallels between “Phoenix” and “Vertigo” come into strong focus as Johnnybegins to turn this woman he believes is a stranger into the wife he betrayed,and, in doing so, brings Nelly back to life. Every choice in “Phoenix” has been carefully considered andyet never in a way that it smothers the realism of the piece. It’s a film that has a deep cinematic language that avoids calling attention to itsstyle. Petzold’s choices are subtle, from the way he frames the expressivefaces of his actors to the choice of “Night and Day” in a crucial club scene to a climactic conversation that takes place on a train track, so deeply symbolic of looking in one direction to the past and the other to the future (as well as carrying historical weight with the trains that took people like Nelly to concentration camps).Dark and light, rising from the ashes, the overhead lighting or neon red of thePhoenix sign—Petzold plays so subtly with visual expression of his themes thathe doesn’t draw attention to them, just allows them to be the background to hishuman drama. Advertisement And that human drama is where Nina Hoss takes center stage.Watch the scene in which she takes off her hat in a club after seeing Johnnywalk by for the first time. She calls his name, happily, even though she knowswhat he’s done. It’s a name she’s called so many times before. He looks pasther. Or maybe he looks at her and doesn’t see her. She can’t be there. Hisbrain can’t even recognize the possibility that she would be. Hoss puts herhand to her mouth in horror. It’s not Johnny’s betrayal but Johnny’s dismissalthat hurts her now. This walking embodiment of when things made sense can’t seeher anymore, and so when he gives her the chance to “become Nelly” again, shetakes it. At one point, Johnny asks Nelly to help craft a story about what hebelieves is her false narrative of her time in a concentration camp. Of course,the story Nelly starts to tell is true. Hoss holds her hands to her face, shaky,unable to speak fluidly. And Johnny is equally uncomfortable. The fiction hebelieves he’s creating and the reality they’re both denying are starting tointersect. Hoss is simply amazing in this scene, and really throughout the film. To be fair, Zehrfeld is very good as well. Watch a moment inwhich he comes home to find Nelly in the right dress, made-up, and looking morelike Nelly of the past. Is that a moment of recognition on his face? Awarenessof what he’s done? No, it can’t be. He can’t be that person and she can’t bealive. She's a ghost, a reminder of what he's done and what the entire world lost in WWII. If we're lucky, a few times a year we get as complete a package as “Phoenix.”We get character studies with performances as strong as Hoss and Zehrfeld arehere every now and then, or we get auteur-driven films with complex visual choices and an emphasis onstyle. It’s uncommon to see a film so balanced that it serves as a commentaryon the human need to deny war and betrayal while never losing sight of thestory of a pianist and nightclub singer in 1945 Berlin. “Phoenix” works on so many levels, it's the kind of piece that can be dissected and appreciated for decades. And I expect it will be.