Thecentral premise behind the newAdam Sandlercomedy "Pixels" is soundeniably promising on its most basic level that as I walked into thescreening, I felt a genuine anticipation that I cannot easily recall ever feeling inconjunction with one of his films, at least of those cranked out by his HappyMadison production company. Unfortunately, a good premise can only take a film so far if ithas been accompanied by abysmal execution.Oh, "Pixels" does have a couple of laughs scattered here and there, and the film as awhole is certainly better than such recent Sandler disasters as "That's MyBoy," "Blended" and the truly inexplicable "TheCobbler," but when one considers how good this material might have been ifplaced in the right hands, to see it squandered this way makes it almost morepainful to view than the typical Sandler stinker. Advertisement The conceithere is that back in 1982, NASA launched into orbit a capsule that containednumerous examples of our then-contemporary popular culture as a way of reachingout to possible alien life forms that might be curious to know about that thingthat we on Earth called "The Pirate Movie," including a cassettechronicling a video game championship featuring young arcade masters showingtheir skills at the top games of the era. Unfortunately, a hostile alien forceintercepts the tape, determines its contents to be an act of war, and beginssending down large and malevolent versions of the characters from those gamesto attack Earth as a response to the alleged challenge with the fate of theplanet hanging in the balance. The spaceships from "Galaga" rainpixilated horror in Peru, a "Centipede" games breaks out overLondon's Hyde Park and the grid-like layout of New York City sets the scene forwhat proves to be the world's largest Pac-Man game. Drastictimes call for drastic measures and so the President (Kevin James) hits upon the idea of bringing in old school gamers to advise onhow to stop the invading forces. Luckily, his childhood best friend, SamBrenner (Sandler), was a young gaming prodigy back in the day until his lifewas ruined after losing that aforementioned championship when he placed secondat Donkey Kong. He is joined by Ludlow (Josh Gad), another participant in thatcompetition who has become a paranoid conspiracy buff (he is convinced JFKfired first, chuckle chuckle) with an unhealthy obsession towards Lady Lisa,the scantily-clad heroine of "Dojo Girl." (This game does notactually exist but as those scoring at home will quickly discover,verisimilitude is not exactly the film's strong point) Overblown egomaniacEddie "The Fireblaster" Plant (Peter Dinklage)—who beat Sam at thatfateful Donkey Kong game—signs on as well but carries a shocking secret thatcould lead to the destruction of the world. Finally, in a small concession thatwomen also play games as well, the guys are joined by Lt. Col. Violet vanPatten (     Michelle Monaghan    ), a brilliant specialist who creates the weirdweaponry to be used against the invaders. (Of course, she is just a girl in amovie aimed at adolescent boys so her signature moves include zapping a Smurfand downing Chardonnay while sobbing about her romantic troubles at length tothe guy who has arrived to install her flat-screen TV.)Like Isaid, the premise of "Pixels" (which was inspired by a 2010 short) is sound, and in aperfect world, it could have been the hi-tech hybrid of "The LastStarfighter" and "Ghostbusters" that it clearly wants to be.Indeed, there are moments when the sight of giant-sized arcade icons wreakinghavoc do have a certain grandeur to them, even if their overexposure in thecoming attractions previews has inevitably reduced much of their immediateimpact. Alas, while the technologies used to bring these characters from their8-bit origins to the CGI world are as state-of-the-art as can be, thescreenplay is closer to "Oregon Trail" by comparison. Instead oftaking the time to really hash out the concept,co-writers and frequent Sandler collaboratorsTim HerlihyandTimothy Dowlinghave essentially shunted it to the side inorder to make room for the usual nonsense: people acting like idiots for noapparent reason, an attitude towards women that should appeal to thoseGamergate oafs, cameo appearances from Sandler's buddies and the usual bits ofgross-out humor. (You'll believe a Q*Bert can whiz!) Advertisement AlthoughI can't help but wonder what someone likeJoe Dante, an excellent filmmakerwith a genuine interest in the perils and pleasures of American popularculture, might have done with this concept,Chris Columbus, the guy behind"Home Alone," "Mrs. Doubtfire" and the first two"Harry Potter" joints, does what he can with the material, but whilesome of the big special effects set-pieces are nicely put together, he seems asbored directing all the stuff in between as viewers will be watching it. On theother side of the camera, Sandler and James simply bounce from scene to scenedelivering their shopworn material with such little effort that they somehowseem less substantial than the pixelated creatures they are battling, Monaghanis thoroughly wasted in a role that doesn't even begin to hint at the talentsthat she has displayed in the past in such things as the little-seen drama"Trucker" and the first season of "True Detective," and JoshGad continues his campaign to become the single most obnoxious performer tograce movie screens in our time. On the other hand, Peter Dinklage does wind upscoring the lion's share of the laughs here with a swaggeringly silly turn thathas clearly been inspired by Billy Mitchell, the obnoxious real-life gamingchampion who was the subject of the documentary "The King of Kong." Viewers of a certain age may lookat "Pixels" with a degree of nostalgia, although it stands to reason that if you areold enough to feel nostalgic about playing "Donkey Kong" in thearcade, you are probably too old for an Adam Sandler film. However, when you considerhow good it could have been and should have been, it has to go down as one ofthe season's bigger disappointments in the way that it quickly gives up theghost(s). On the bright side, Hollywood is remaking films so quickly these daysthat it is only a matter of time before they get to doing this one again.