Following the success of “Wayne’s World,” the ‘90s saw awave of “Saturday Night Live” sketches turned into feature films that are bestforgotten, including “It’s Pat,” “The Ladies Man,” “Superstar” and “A Night atthe Roxbury.” The films were exercises in laziness, features built on theconcept that the only thing one needed to in order to stretch a 5-minute sketchinto a 90-minute movie was to repeat the same jokes—and often catch phrases—about18 times. The comedies were particularly frustrating because one could sensethe pure comic talent of people likeWill FerrellandMolly Shannon, and sowere disappointed when they were wasted on such junk. The trend died out, andwe can all be grateful we didn’t have to suffer through “The Target Lady” or “TheCalifornians” (although I’d donate to a Stefon movie Kickstarter). All of thismakes “Staten Island Summer,” now open in select theaters and available Digital platforms before appearing on Netflix this Thursday, July 30th, feellike even more of an anachronism. They don’t make movies that seem topurposefully waste the talents of current “SNL” stars much any more. Well, exceptfor this one. Advertisement To be fair, the “SNL” cast here is supporting and not lead,but they are the draw, especially after one spends five minutes with the actualleads of “Staten Island Summer,” and realizes they are merely mediocre riffs onthe characters thatMichael CeraandJonah Hillplayed so memorably in “Superbad.”The likable but dullGraham Phillipsplays the likable but dull Danny Campbellas he narrates the story of the most important summer of his life, which takesplace almost entirely at the public pool at which he is a lifeguard. Danny and hisbest buddy Frank (the remarkably annoyingZack Pearlman) need to have one lastSummer blast before they head into adulthood, and so this year’s annual afterhour pool party is of the utmost importance. Will Frank hook up with one of thegorgeous twins (Katie and Kellie Cockrell) who have ignored him all Summer?Will Danny finally get close to the legendary Krystal Manicucci (AshleyGreene), his first crush? Around the fringe of this riff on “American Pie” and “Superbad”lay the “SNL” cast members, past and present, all seemingly doing “Weekend Update”hostColin Josta favor (Jost wrote the clearly semi-biographical piece and hasa small part as a rambunctious cop). Cecily Strong,Will Forte,Fred Armisen,Bobby Moynihanand the Emmy-nominatedKate McKinnonare all, to varyingdegrees, wasted. Strong has the biggest role as the toughest talker on thelifeguard staff, although her character is ultimately, of course, reduced to alove interest for another bro. Moynihan and Armisen fare reasonably well as thestoner lifeguard and slightly-unhinged groundskeeper, respectively. McKinnon istotally wasted, and other familiar faces likeKate Walsh,Jim Gaffigan, GinaGershon,Vincent Pastoreand evenMethod Manpop up to make one wonder whatattracted so many people to so little. None of them are particularly “bad” herebut they’ve been given almost nothing to do. They don’t play realisticcharacters, they don’t tell jokes; they’re just kind of there. The result is aweird exercise in which you play a game of recognizing performers instead ofactually giving a damn about what they’re doing in the actual movie. Perhaps it was little more than the promise to hang outtogether around a pool for a few weeks. It certainly seems that way given thelack of actual writing and joke-crafting going on here. Jost can’t figure outthe movie he wanted to make. “Staten Island Summer” starts as a nostalgiapiece, even promising a bit of dramedy a la “The Way Way Back.” And yet there’sabsolutely no depth to the piece whatsoever, largely in part because we’renever given one reason to care about Danny. Sure, he seems nice, but literallyeveryone around him is simply more interesting. “Staten Island Summer” is oneof those films in which virtually every time a supporting character leaves, youwish you could go with him or her. Except for Frank, a walking and talking clichéof the horny teenager. We were all teenagers once. Most of us have that “formativesummer” upon which we can look back and fondly remember the people with whom wespent it. So Colin Jost wanted to bring his friends along to recreate hispersonal summer memories. Someone should have told him, perhaps someone whoworked on those ‘90s “SNL” movies, that you can never go back again. Advertisement