TheTom Cruise-ist moment in the history ofTom Cruise films was the one in "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol" where Tom Cruise's super-agent escaped a 9/11style bombing of the Kremlin and a false arrest as the main suspectand reunited with his commanding officer and said he was pretty sure he spotted thereal bomber while sneaking around the Kremlin, then grabbed a pen and in five seconds drew asketch on his palm that looked exactly like the guy. You believed it, of course,because it was Tom Cruise doing the drawing. If American films have provedanything, it's that Tom Cruise is The Best: at pool,at flying jets, at mixing cocktails, at racing cars, at building an airtightlegal case against brutal Marine colonels and southern gangsters, at whippingsexist bros into a frenzy, at representing football players in contractnegotiations, at defending Earth against invasion by extra-dimensional monstersand, in the "Mission: Impossible" series,at battling heavily armed bad guys while running and jumping and fighting anddriving and hacking and playing “Flight of the Bumblebee” on the violin if needbe. Advertisement I'mgoing to call him Tom Cruise during the rest of this review of "Mission: Impossible - Rogue Nation" because even thoughhis character has a name, Ethan Hunt, it is really Tom Cruise who makes his entranceclambering over a hill and exhorting his lovable tech guy Benji (Simon Pegg) touse his hacking skill to open the door of a cargo transport plane that's aboutto take off with a belly full of nukes stolen by Chechen separatists orsomething, I don't know who they are, it doesn't matter, Tom Cruise is running,arms and legs pumping, hair flying, and holy mother of moley he's climbing ontothe top of the plane and hanging to its underbelly as it takes off, with hisbare hands! Iforgot to say that Tom Cruise works for the International Monetary Fund, sorry,the Impossible Mission Force (they keep saying "IMF," it'sconfusing). The plot? Fine, the plot: CIA directorAlec Baldwinwants todisband the IMF. He believes Tom’s people are just a bunch of mavericks,meatheads too impulsive to send to Top Gun. “Your unorthodox methods areindistinguishable from chance,” a government official tells them, “and your results, perfect or not, looksuspiciously like luck.” So the IMF is disbanded, over the objections of Tom Cruise’s buddy and fellow butt-kicking super-agent William Brandt (JeremyRenner), whom I guess is his superior, and—I have no idea what happened in thismovie. Something about Spectre, or Hydra, or The Syndicate, yes, that’s it, theSyndicate, a group comprised of rogue agents who are sneaking all around theworld blowing things up and killing heads of state and destroying majorcompanies and taking candy away from little kids on Halloween, too! Just swooping downout of the sky, on jet packs, and stealing their candy! OK, they didn’t do thatlast thing. But they did everything else on the list. These are really bad people! There could not be aworse time to tell Tom Cruise, “Hey, you stink, you can’t save the worldanymore.” TomCruise gets knocked around in this film even more brutally than in the lastone.He gets captured by some of these Syndicate people and hung by his wrists in adank makeshift cell and beaten by a goon known as Janik “Bone Doctor” Vinter (Jens Hultén). He dives into a centrifuge chamber full of water tore-key a security system so that Benji can sneak into the top-secret datastorage base above, and reprogram the something or other so that they can dothat thing and get the thumb drive and breach the firewall, or something. OnlyTom Cruise can go into the water chamber because you have to be able to holdyour breath for three minutes and seriously, who can do that besides TomCruise? Advertisement TomCruise goes on high speed chases involving phalanxes of motorcycles and carsmaking hairpin turns and galumphing down stone steps in Istanbul, or is itParis, or London? The filmmakers always tell you the city plus the country—likethey really needed to say “Vienna, Austria,” so that you didn’t look at theVienna State Opera house and think you were in Vienna, Virginia—but as in the JamesBond and Jason Bourne films, the location is not of much importance, exceptinsofar as it can supply landmarks for Tom Cruise and his enemies to fight in,race through and occasionally level. Thismovie is written by Brent Staples andDrew Pearceand directed byChristopher McQuarrie, who wrote "The Usual Suspects", so it should come asno surprise that as the movie unreels, the main bad guy Solomon Lane (SeanHarris) and his goons and the members of the IMF all start to seem likevariations on Keyser Soze, the man-wraith who changed faces and stories andcould be anyone. Tonally, this is a different experience from the last one, "Ghost Protocol," which felt like animmense machine, or contraption, with each line and shot building into aself-contained sequence: a touch ofBuster Keaton. "Rogue Nation" feels like itcould’ve been a movie by Keaton’s most fervent disciple,Jackie Chan, who giftedthe human race with the likes of "Project A" and "Supercop." It has a loose, hurtling quality. Despite all the bone-breaking violence, itstouch is light. McQuarrie,who last worked with Cruise on the excellent "Edgeof Tomorrow," underplays his directing flourishes just as cannily as Cruiseunderplays his feats of strength and guile. The idea of action movies as musicals gets a workout during the opera house sequence, and the script pushes the idea of spies as performers to its logical end, hinging scenes on whether agents can lie to otheragents, or pretend to be other people, or even imitate someone’s gait in order tofool an identity scanner. But these thematic touches and others aren't italicized. They're just part of the experience.Advertisement McQuarrieunderstands that these films are essentially tall tales with a sense of humor,skating on the edge of parody at all times while maintaining a poker face. TomCruise is 53 now, and even though he looks great (he’s all sinew), the factthat he’s aging out of the action hero demographic lends a poignant aspect tothe escalating absurdity of this series. If you watched all of the "Mission: Impossible" films in a row, starting with 1996’s original, wouldthey feel like a James Bond version of "Boyhood"?Maybe. The unifying, meta-fictional subject of all five is whether there isanything Tom Cruise can’t do, and if he can continue being awesome even ashis face sags and his hair turns gray and young moviegoers stop caring about him. (There isa precedent: Randolph Scott. Even in his sixties, he was starring in Westernadventures where he kicked 172 different kinds of butt, often while wearingthe same shirt throughout.) There’sa lot of dry humor in the movie that could be described as HowardHawksian: character moments and story beats that are all about camaraderie and professionalism underpressure. At one point Tom Cruise realizes that in order to save the world, heand his IMF team, which includes the porkpie-hatted hacker Luther Stickell(Ving Rhames), will have to kidnap a head of state, andthey only have a few hours to figure out how to do it. Brandt grouses for maybe 10 seconds before remembering that it’s Tom Friggin’ Cruise doing the asking, then accepts his fate.Aficionados of the super-agent's instant-mugshot sketches will be pleased to learn that they appear in this film as well. I have no idea if these drawings are really by Tom Cruise, but if it turned out that they were, would you be surprised? When CIA agents burst into one of his hideouts and find two new sketches plus a wall of photos and documents arranged like a mixed media collage, it's as if riot police had barged into an art gallery. I almost expected somebody to offer them white wine and brie.Advertisement Themost surprising aspect is that, beneath it all, the movie is a love story ofsorts. Tom Cruise meets his match in British agent Ilsa Faust (instant starRebecca Ferguson), a longlegged, dark haired beauty who is for all intents and purposes the female Tom Cruise. Not only can she shoot and drive and fight as wellas Tom Cruise, she shares his action deadpan. We are never sure if Ilsa is on his side or the Brits’ or perhaps the Syndicate’s. She keeps catching him and freeing him, beating him down and saving his life.Cruise’s mix of bafflement and curiosity as he contemplates Ilsa (yes, there isa Casablanca sequence in the movie, how could there not be?) quickly stops having anything to do with espionage. Intime the film becomes a droll, bizarrely asexual screwball comedy about good-looking spies whoexpress their unconsummatable love for each other through feats ofviolence, bravery and self-sacrifice. If one of the characters wasn’t female, you could call this abromance. Thesoundtrack occasionally quotes the opera that unfolded during the Viennasequence: Puccini’s "Turandot,"about a stubborn prince and princess who spend the whole story testing each other. Late in the film, Tom Cruise and his leggy doppelganger are sitting together at a café table while surroundedby killers, and the sound drops out completely, and McQuarrie’s cameragoes close to their faces, and they exchange a look. It’s the same kind oflook thatJohn Woo’s andSergio Leone’s characters used to exchange beforedrawing their guns and shooting their way out of a tight spot. It is a look of shared understanding: one superior being acknowledging another. Alec Baldwin describes Cruise,hilariously and also accurately, as “the living manifestation of destiny,” but thephrase could apply to Ilsa as well, and to this glorious film, which knowsexactly what it wants to be and makes damn sure that Tom Cruise never stopsrunning.