Last week, as I was walking out of a screening of “Vacation,”a fellow critic, engaged in passionate argument with some other colleagues,pointed at me and said, “You! I heard YOU laughing.” And I said, well, yes, Iwas laughing, at some particular parts. My poor friend was searching, perhaps desperately at thispoint, for someone who shared his “c’mon, it wasn’t THAT bad” opinion of thefilm. And I happen to have, for better or worse, a laugh that’s hard to miss.But I couldn’t go that far with him about this necessarily self-conscioussequel—or is it a reboot?—to the famed “National Lampoon” films of the samename/theme. No way, no how. Because“Vacation” is, minute to minute, one of the most repellent, mean-spiritedgross-out comedies it’s ever been my squirmy displeasure to sit through. Thisrelentless farce of humiliation asks us to guffaw at a gruesome highway death,another presumed death by blunt-force trauma and/or drowning and/or (spoileralert for those who sit through end credits?) bear attack. It locates humor inthe sight of a young boy using a used hypodermic needle as a dart launchedagainst his brother, and, at the very end, that brother unearthing hisostensible virility by beating on a snooty teenage girl. Advertisement I could go on, and on, and on. But if you’ve seen thetrailers, which feature the highway death gag, and the hypo gag, and the set upto the hypo gag (which is that the clueless Griswold family, thinking they’vediscovered a secret, mineral-rich “hot spring,” are revealed to be swimming ina pool of raw sewage and more) you get the tone of the film, which is similar to that of the very popular, and largely vile and hypocritical “Hangover” movies.“Vacation,” like those films, features the affably goofyEd Helmsin a leadrole. Here Helms plays a grown-up Rusty Griswold (the teen son characterinitially played byAnthony Michael Hallin the 1983 “National Lampoon’sVacation;” the most famous subsequent Rusty is, I’d say,Johnny Galecki, whoplayed the role in 1989’s “National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation”). Rusty is a pilot for anairline called “Econo-Air,” and in the opening scene, he’s given his haplessnice-guy props by an aged colleague who’s clearly suffering from dementia, andwho nearly crashes the plane when Rusty leaves the cockpit for a bathroombreak. You remember what I was saying before about the jokes in this movie.After a slick playboy pilot for a more elite carrier (Ron Livingston) obligesRusty to eat dirt on a shuttle line, Rusty gets home to find discontent in thedomestic hearth. His younger son, Kevin (Steele Stebbins) has been tormentingolder brother James (Skylar Grisondo), per his usual routine, we are led to believe bybeleaguered mom Debbie (Christina Applegate). This time, it’s bymagic-markering “James Has A Vagina” on his guitar. You remember what I wassaying… Anyway. I might as well fess up here that the most laughs Igot from the movie were via Steele Stebbins as the older-brother-tormentingKevin. The character as written is typically nasty and foul-mouthed, and it’spretty clear that directors and co-writers Jonathan Goldstein and John FrancisDaley (who also wrote “Horrible Bosses,” so, um, yeah) weren’t expecting to getmore out of the character than the usual cheap “hey, check out this little kidcursing a blue streak” laughs. But Stebbins—and perhaps I should be moredisturbed than amused by this—invests the character with a relentless bad-seedmalevolence, a gleeful aura of irredeemability, that’s so mortifying it’sactually often quite funny. Advertisement As for the rest of the cast, well, I used to think thatHelms, whose upending of Middle American blandness on “The Daily Show” wasalways reliably droll, did those dreadful “Hangover” films because they paidwell; now I wonder that he actually believes these movies are good, and thequestion unsettles me. But that’s life. Christina Applegate, whose work on“Married With Children” gave her valuable experience in playing characterswhose dignity, such as it might be, is regularly affronted, shows similar gamegood spirits in her activities here.Chris Hemsworth, playing Rusty’sbrother-in-law, assays an exaggerated Southern accent and strides around withan oversize prosthetic penis, which, again, you probably know from the trailerAs the Griswolds drive erratically across the country (the movie doubles downon the imaginary-car-from-hell device of the 1983 original) “Vacation” shows apeculiar perspective on the American character. This Made-In-USA clan suffersabasement after abasement, literally swimming in feces at one point, but still soldiers on in pursuit of acherished goal—a sojourn to Walley World. And even there, degradation awaits. And these dumb, wan, mediocre,sad-sack Americans are too stupid to even understand what’s happening to them,yet too plucky to back down. Perpetual stooges.