“He made my lifebetter by being a friend of mine.” This line near the end of “I Am ChrisFarley” captures, in many ways, why the loss ofChris Farleyhurt so much, andcontinues to resonate: he felt like a friend. We had lost talented peoplebefore. We had lost drug addicts and alcoholics. We had lost too manycomedians. But losing Farley felt like losing a friend. It was his relatablityas much as his talent that made him a superstar. He didn’t look like acelebrity. He looked like an average guy that you could have known fromMadison, WI. The awkward, shy center of the infamous “The Chris Farley Show”sketch was something to which we could all relate. Who wouldn’t get nervous aroundPaul McCartney? Farley’s humor came from such a genuine desire to entertain. Hewas all of us shouting for our mom’s attention at a crowded family function orhoping that we would know the right thing to say at a social outing. And solosing him felt like losing a friend. At its best, “I Am Chris Farley,” openingin limited release this week before hitting the home market and airing on SpikeTV next month, captures why Chris Farley mattered, even if it does sometimesgloss over a few of the reasons our friend is no longer with us. Advertisement “I Am Chris Farley” opens withLorne Michaelscalling itssubject “infuriatingly talented.”Over an hour later, we’re still hearing someone say, “He had ‘it’.” This is not so much a documentary as a loveletter. It is for fans, by fans in every way. Everything Farley did, from hischildhood to his time at Second City to “Saturday Night Live” and “Tommy Boy”is captured as landmark sea changes in the world of comedy. Colleagues and fansincludingAdam Sandler,David Spade,Mike Myers, Dan Akyroyd,Bo Derek, BobSaget,Christina Applegateand more participate in what feels like a memorialtribute more than anything else. The first half-hour of “I Am Chris Farley” proves to be themost interesting, as it allows friends and family from Farley’s youth to rememberwhat formed this talent. He was a middle child, always looking for mommy’sattention and competing with his brothers. He was religious, shy, and overlykind. From an early age, he struggled with weight and self-esteem issues, buthe had natural ability on stage that really came out in college. Believe it ornot, rugby changed Farley’s life, as playing the sport gave him the support ofteammates and the center of attention at parties. Farley’s antics in collegewere legendary, but it was when he discovered improv comedy that everythingchanged. Farley went to Chicago with his friends, and contacted thelegendaryDel Closefor lessons in comedy. It wasn’t long before he ended up onthe main stage of the comedy venue that has produced dozens of household names.As presented here, Farley’s time at Second City was a force of nature. As thegreatBob Odenkirk(who’s so eloquent here one wishes he would do a whole docabout the art of comedy) says, everyone who worked at Second City would stopwhat they were doing when Farley would do Matt Foley, Motivational Speaker, acharacter he would turn into one of the most memorable in the history of “SNL.” Advertisement As presented, Farley didn’t audition for “SNL,” he wasplucked from Second City by Michaels himself. As his star grew brighter on theshow, Farley continued to suffer from crippling doubt. Even after the successof “Tommy Boy,” he worried about what people thought of him, and was crushed,relapsing, when “Black Sheep” didn’t work. It’s this darker side of Farley thatthe doc gives lip service but generally avoids. Every time a relapse ismentioned, it immediately moves to rehab. It’s a bit too soft in that regard,unwilling to address the real demons that haunted Farley, how they got there,and how public perception of the man played into them. Farley was a popularparty animal in college who did extreme things. Did the satisfaction of being aclass clown make him a more likely addict? And what about the fat jokes? Thecontroversial Chippendales sketch is presented as breakthrough when I actuallyfind it hard to watch now, especially knowing that Farley called a friend thenight before concerned about being the “fat guy” again. In the end, “I Am Chris Farley” offers some neat anecdotes—includingthe real-life origins of Matt Foley and autobiographical aspects of “Tommy Boy”—andreminds fans what they loved and what they missed. I kept thinking what Farleywould have thought of it. He probably would have been embarrassed and a bit shyabout the whole thing. But he would have loved the attention. He would havesmiled and laughed. And sometimes that’s enough.