In his masterful “Museum Hours,” filmmakerJem Cohenmerged his skills as an urban documentarian with a narrative about two unlikelyfriends. Art, history, companionship, support and everyday life merged into onevision. His latest, “Counting,” billed as a “A film in 15 Chapters,” is bothmore ambitious and less purposeful in its intent. Clearly designed as a nod toChris Marker(particularly “Sans Soleil”), “Counting” captures life around theworld in all its simplicity and diversity, as Cohen bounces back and forth fromNew York City to Russia to Turkey, and locales in between. There’s littlenarration, little noise at all outside of the hum of traffic or the whine of atrain or the rustle of leaves. Most people in frame are seen from behind, orvia reflection, or from a distance. And there are cats. Everywhere. Cohen isn’tas interested in faces as he is urban tableaus. The result is a challengingwork that can be both exhilarating and grueling in its deliberate pace. Cohenis an undeniably gifted filmmaker, even if the sum total of this piece isn’tquite as interesting as its parts. Advertisement “Counting” opens in New York City, featuring footage thatthe filmmaker captured around the city from 2012 to 2014. The first segment of “Counting,”which I believe is also its longest, is arguably its best as it’s a fantasticdisplay of Cohen’s skills. He can turn the mundane imagery of urban existenceinto art by the way it’s shot, scored, or juxtaposed with another image. Whatcaptures his eye and the way he weaves into a piece can often result in greatart. In the first segment, we hear a speech about discovering the secrets ofthe universe while we view a sedentary homeless person. We see a torn page witha headline about “The World’s Last Mysteries.” Cohen is placing imagery andaudio of the questions of the universe against reflections of travelers on atrain or a homeless man crossing the street. This is daily life and the world’sgreatest mysteries are contained within it. Cohen has a remarkable ability to go from placid, almostsoothing imagery to kinetic, more frantic footage like when he captures an “ICan’t Breathe” protest scored to discordant, loud music. Even flags waving inthe wind at a car dealership look antagonistic. He’s playing with the essenceof filmmaking here, knowing that the images just before and after those flags,along with the choice of audio, change the way the viewer responds to them. Sometimes Cohen can be straightforward and even didactic,such as in chapter 7, in which he presents imagery of reflections of people ontheir phones accompanied by audio of testimony about the NSA wiretapping.Although even this “short film within the big film” feels contextually resonantwithin a piece that feels, at least to me, about interconnectivity andcommonality. Cohen jumps around the world and finds numerous images that looklike reflections of each other. People crossing squares in New York City andSt. Petersburg become often indistinguishable. Some of his compositions arepicture-postcard beautiful while others take a minute to even discern what itis being displayed. And he’s obsessed with travel and motion. A voice sings inone chapter, “Do you ever wonder where itis you’re wandering?” We’re all wanderers around this world that’s moresimilar than we even know. There are times, many times actually, when “Counting” feelsa bit too self-indulgent, something that never struck me during “Museum Hours,”an undeniably more accessible piece for the average filmgoer. It starts to geta bit exhausting and unfocused. Unpacking “Counting” can be difficult, and itfeels at times like it’s purposefully so, as if Cohen is challengingtraditional expectations of film analysis, even ones as often abstract as his.But one cannot deny the ambition of “Counting,” a movie that travels the world,connecting it through the commonality of both everyday behavior and theuniversal language of cinema. “Counting” ends almost peacefully, with images of calm andnight. I was hoping for a bit more cumulative power, something to tie thesechapters together, but I think Cohen purposefully avoids those kind of easycinematic answers. Maybe these are just images, people and places around theworld that he found interesting. Perhaps you will too. And sometimes life is assimple as that. Advertisement