As the opening credits roll, we see the man prepare forhis day in close-up. He wets his hair and slicks it back with styling product.He ties his tie, does up his pants and puts on a suit coat, making sure thehandkerchief in the breast pocket is nice and square. He knots the laces of hisleather shoes, and after all of this, he's ready to face the day. Then directorThomas Wirthensohnshows us the entirety of the man against his surroundings.This man, who looks quite dapper after the process, has been going through hismorning routine in a public restroom. Advertisement His name is Mark Reay, a man in his early 50s who hasbeen homeless for five or maybe six years. He isn't certain about the timeframe. Who could blame him? He sleeps in a tiny alcove on the roof of an apartmentbuilding in Manhattan where one of his friends lives. The friend, who gave Reaya key to the building so he could look after the apartment whenever the friendis on vacation, doesn't know this, and whenever Reay walks into that building (oranother one across the street where he has a secondary rooftop shelter), he hasto make sure no one sees him climb the stairs to the roof. He seems lessworried about some stranger calling the police than he is about the friendseeing him. "It would be awkward," he says. Reay is the subject of "Homme Less," adocumentary that follows him over the course of two years of his day-to-daylife. He spends his days walking the streets, taking photographs of prettywomen dressed with a certain sense of fashion for a "street styles"section of a magazine. That's one of his gigs. The photography work becomes alittle more substantial during New York Fashion Week, when Reay gets to gobackstage and attend red carpet events at various fashion shows throughout thecity. He dabbles in acting, too, although his credits are mostly for backgroundwork. It's enough that he can use the Actors' Equity Association's credit union(the only bank that will accept his business) and receive a discount on healthinsurance through his membership in the Screen Actors Guild. At one point, Reaywas a model, but he didn't find the work intellectually stimulating enough. This man doesn't fit the model of our traditionalperception of a homeless person. Wirthensohn shows us people who do, as Reaypasses them in the street and during a montage that juxtaposes middle-classfolks going about their day with the poverty-stricken digging through garbageand begging for money. It's difficult to determine if Wirthensohn is equatingReay with the latter group, if the director is slightly jabbing his subject bythe comparison, or if he's trying to make us consider Reay as existing in some unique,undefined socioeconomic status between the two. Advertisement Reay pretty much admits he's homeless by choice, as a wayto save on the expense of renting an apartment. After all, he needs the littlemoney he earns in order to do the work he wants to do, which often includesnetworking at bars until 2 o'clock in the morning. He could get a"normal" job if he wanted, but he doesn't want to. Reay speaksdirectly to the camera, telling the audience that we can feel free to come upto that roof and tell him to get a regular job. "Kick my ass," as heputs it, and we can't tell if he means that literally or figuratively. In other words, this isn't some sob story. Reay doesn'tbelieve he or his situation deserve much pity or sympathy. We know this becausehe looks directly into the camera to tell us as much (He later tells us that wecan feel free to send some money his way, since his living situation is goingto be severely compromised with existence of this documentary). He's livingla vie boheme, although there's noromance to it when he shows us his water jug, which is now filled with urine(It is, admittedly, economical). The film is, though, a fascinating account of a man whoplays a role in order to hide the reality of his life. We're often told todress for the job we want, but Reay is dressing for the life he must appear tohave if he's ever going to get the job he wants. It seems to be working, ifonly to an extent. He gets work, as sparsely paid as it is. He's able to flirtand canoodle with aspiring models, although he's certain he's incapable ofgiving or receiving love. Part of Reay's "job" is to make himself appearsuccessful, but he also seems to be content with or, at least, accustomed tohis situation. During a couple of late-night confessionals on that rooftop, though,he admits he has doubts about his career ever going anywhere and about hisworth as a person. For a man who lies daily about his lot in life, Reay issurprisingly, starkly honest about himself. Advertisement There are no major revelations about why Reay lives theway he does—no tragic story or significant setback in his past. Wirthensohnflat-out asks him at one point in "Homme Less," and Reay simply saysthat things didn't quite work out the way he expected. We can relate to thatsentiment. We can also, sort of admire Reay's persistence in chasing his dream,even as we wonder if we would have the willpower or patience to live as he doesand question his judgment in taking the pursuit to such an extreme.