In this week’s installment of  “What The Hell IsNicolas CageStarring InNow?”, we have an unusual political drama composed of several individual parts,which aren’t all that awful, yet create a big old mess in this particularcombination. Let it never be said that “What The Hell Is Nicolas Cage StarringIn Now?” stints on surprises. “The Runner” is the feature writing/directorial debut ofAustin Stark, whose name is attached to a handful of intriguing indie films,including 2012’s “Hello I Must Be Going.” In that and other cases, it’sattached in a producing capacity. The movie begins with a montageexplaining—partially—the movie’s title. Cage’s character pulls a pair ofrunning shoes from a shelf—he’s got a bunch of them—and, in his Tulane t-shirt,goes for a brisk run. Soon we learn that the movie’s set in 2010, in theimmediate aftermath of the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill, and that Cage’scharacter, Colin Price, is a Congressman from Louisiana. His impassioned Housespeech decrying the economic impact of the man-made disaster suddenly makes hima man of the moment. His longtime right-hand man and buddy Frank (WendellPierce) sees a Senate run opportunity. (See, that’s where the other meaning ofthe title comes in.) But Price has high ideals. When his wife, Deborah (ConnieNielsen), herself a powerful attorney, drags him to a meeting with an arrogant,deep-pocketed oil lobbyist (Bryan Batt), Price lets the guy know he can’t bebought. Advertisement But like so many Potentially Great Men, Price has acharacter flaw, which, as one character puts it, albeit less delicately thanthis, involves his inability to keep one of his organs securely tucked in histrousers. When the press gets a hold of some elevator cam footage of himgetting frisky with the African-American wife of an African Americannow-unemployed fisherman…well, yow, as they say. The subsequent scandal sendsFrank and consultant Kate (Sarah Paulsen) into a spin control tailspin, whileDeborah can see only what she thought was the couple’s shared ambition even asshe swallows her wifely humiliation. Then there’s Price’s old-school politicofather, bearing a kit bag of Issues both Daddy and Ideological.Peter Fondaplays him, in a really exceptional performance that tempers the character’svenal bluster with frighteningly convincing portrayals of failing health (Ihope it’s just makeup that makes Fonda look so realistically jaundicedhere). As you see, these plot elements, and the actors, have allthe makings of a truly juicy and thought-provoking political melodrama. So it’sdispiriting to see filmmaker Stark create such a weird, jagged hash out ofthem. For its first forty minutes or so, “The Runner” plays like a lessenergeticRod Luriemovie. Then the movie makes its lurch intopotential-personal-redemption-through-love territory, and starts feeling like amiddle-aged variant of aCameron Croweromance. Then there’s a scene in whichCage stumbles into a New Orleans bar in which the musical entertainment is atrombone and vibraphone duo. I guess this is theDavid Lynchsection of themovie. By its final fifteen minutes, the movie settles into a very humorlessretread of the cynical-realist 1970s political comedy “The Candidate.” Whichkind of misses several points. Lacking the sharp edge of that film, or theoften irrational passion that for better or worse drives Lurie’s movies (not tomention some ofOliver Stone’s), “The Runner” squanders at least one greatperformance (Fonda’s) and delivers a dispiritingly inert cinematic experience.