Althoughthe summer of 2015 has proven to be a largely disappointing season in terms ofcinematic achievements for the most part, one definite bright spot has been thegradual reemergence of feature animation as a viable art form after a few yearsin which the genre has been largely dominated by increasingly formulaic andlargely forgettable works that have done little more than fatten up the bottomlines of the studios behind them. After a depressing lapse in quality withfilms like "Cars 2" and "Monsters University," Pixarfinally returned to form with the ingeniously creative and flawlessly executed"Inside Out." Aardman, the studio that gave us the adventures ofWallace & Gromit and "Chicken Run" has similarly returned with"Shaun the Sheep," which has been winning rave reviews from critics.Now comes "Kahlil Gibran's The Prophet," a wildly ambitious andfrequently fascinating film that moviegoers of all ages should find bothentertaining and provocative in equal measure. Advertisement The filmis based on the book of the same name by Lebanese writer/philosopher Gibran. Init, the prophet Almustafa is about to board a ship that will take him homeafter 12 years away when he is stopped by a group of people and proceeds todiscuss a number of topics related to the human condition in the form of 26prose poems. Since its initial publication in 1923, the book struck achord with readers and became both Gibran's best-known book and a steady sellerto this date that has never gone out of print. One of the book's most famous fans was actressSalma Hayekand even though a collection of prose poems onsuch subjects as crime and punishment, beauty, religion and clothing might notseem like the most fertile source of material for a film, she has spent thelast decade bringing it to the screen as an animated film, serving both as aproducer and as one of the character voices. Torealize Gibran's ideas in a fresh and visually vibrant manner, Hayek andwriter-directorRoger Allers, who previously co-directed a little thing called"The Lion King" back in the day, have hit upon a fairly ingeniousconcept. They have taken eight of the most popular poems in the book and havefarmed them out to eight of the most innovative independent animators workingtoday to interpret in their own distinct styles while the works are read byLiam Neeson.Bill Plymptonbrings "On Eating & Drinking" to lifeutilizing his hand-dawn style, an approach also adopted by Italian animatorsPaul andGaetan Brizziin "On Death." On the other hand, MohammedSaeed Harib employs watercolors for "On Good & Evil" and "OnLove," done by "The Secret of Kells" animatorTomm Moore. It lookslike a painting come alive. Although different viewers will have differentrankings for the various segments, it seems impossible that "OnWork," the visually extraordinary segment by clay-painterJoan Gratzwillnot rank towards the top of them in the way that it combines Gibran's powerfulwords with equally stunning imagery. In tyingthese flights of fancy together, Allers has considerably reworked the narrativewraparound with mixed results. Here, Mustafa (Neeson) is a dissident who hasbeen under house arrest for years in the town of Orphalese and who befriendsAlmitra (Quvenzhane Wallis), the largely silent but occasionally troublemakingdaughter of the woman (Hayek) who serves as his housekeeper. One day, theauthorities announce that Mustafa is going to be sent back to his homeland atlast but even as the population of the town comes out to joyously see him off,there is the sense that there is more to this seemingly benevolent decision tolet him go than meets the eye and this gives his subsequent recitations anextra edge of importance. The trouble is that these sequences are at times alittle too cartoony for their own good and while they may appeal to youngerviewers who are not quite ready to grapple with the headier ideas regarding howdangerous mere words can be to the social order, older audience members willfind themselves waiting impatiently for the next visual poem to begin. Advertisement That is aproblem but not a major one (if only because the animation, though moreconventional in nature than in the feature segments, is still nice to look at)and "Kahlil Gibran's The Prophet" still has a lot to offerviewers—visual astonishments, a stirring score by     Gabriel Yared    that alsoincludes original songs by Damien Rice and     Glen Hansard    &     Lisa Hannigan    andstrong contributions from the vocal cast that, in addition to those alreadymentioned, also features     John Krasinski    ,     Frank Langella    and     Alfred Molina    . ForHayek, this is a personal triumph on the level of her equally dedicated effortsto bring "     Frida    " to the screen. For viewers, it is a smart, vibrantand ultimately entertaining film that also serves as a reminder that animatedfeature films can do so much more than serve as commercials for toy lines andfast-food meal tie-ins.