Gillian Flynn’s script forDavid Fincher’s incredible adaptation of “Gone Girl” was a master class ingenre, taking an admittedly ridiculous, twisting and turning narrative and making its plot holes forgivablethrough sheer force of entertainment value. It makes sense that another ofFlynn’s novels, the sinister “Dark Places,” would get the cinematic treatmentas well, although this failed exercise could be used comparatively with “GoneGirl” as a What Not to Do cinematic lesson. Whereas Fincher and Flynn broughtstyle and flair to the saga of Amazing Amy, writer/director GillesPaquet-Brennerpresents a drab, dull, uninspired affair, enlivened onlyslightly by the talented cast assembled. Failing to find a visual languagefor the piece that reaches beyond a Lifetime TV Movie and adapting the materialin such a way that makes her protagonist largely inactive in her own story,Paquet-Brenner only makes the already-underrated “Gone Girl” look even moreaccomplished. Advertisement When she was only seven, Libby Day (Sterling Jerins)suffered the unimaginable. Her entire family was murdered in a shotgun rampagelike something out of “In Cold Blood.” In fact, the murders earned that kind ofinternational attention, especially after Libby’s brother Ben (Tye Sheridan)was arrested and sentenced for them. Accused of dabbling in Satanism,Ben was convicted on little evidence, and true crime nuts have been convincedfor years that there was more to the Day murders. Of course, there was, because,well, there’s no movie otherwise. Bitter and hardened by life, grown Libby (Charlize Theron)hasn’t been in touch with her incarcerated brother (played byCorey Stollolder)since the crimes. That’s when she’s contacted by Lyle Wirth (Nicholas Hoult), amember of a true crime club that collects items and information from bloodbathsaround the country. He convinces the broke Libby to tell her story to the club,and she needs the cash enough to do so. Of course, Lyle has ulterior motives,convinced that Ben is innocent, and he eventually talks Libby into diggingdeeper into what really happened that night. Both narratives—the current-day investigation and the daysleading up to the murder years earlier—are intercut in this murky, unrefinedscreenplay that piles up narrative and twists without ever considering thepiece’s deadly lack of characters. Theron does her brooding best to make Libbythree-dimensional, but, and this could be partly the fault of the sourcematerial, she is almost always merely a listener to someone presenting moredetails about her past or entirely absent in the extensive flashbacks. Consequently,“Dark Places” is a film without a protagonist, akin to watching recreated footageon “Dateline NBC,” as each flashback or revelatory conversation fills in a few moredetails of the overheated story without giving us a reason to care about it in thefirst place. Poor Theron wanders through a narrative designed around reveals; so she’s either remembering things she couldn’t have possiblyknown about or hearing about things she should have figured out a long time ago.As he often has lately, Corey Stoll actually makes out the best in a fewcrucial scenes as the older Ben, and Hoult certainly isn’t bad even if hischaracter, like so many of them, feels like a plot device. Advertisement All of this leads to a distinct lack of urgency in “DarkPlaces,” which makes the dour, depressing subject matter that much harder toenjoy. It's a checklist of awful things that can happen to a Middle American family. The Day matriarch (Christina Hendricks) is afraid of losing the farm,their dad (a suspect in the murders) is missing, Satanism threatens to enticeyoung Ben, the kid is accused of child abuse, drugs, teenage pregnancy—the wholething verges on poverty porn given the lack of genre escapism provided. Weneeded a reason to wallow in the dark places of Libby Day’s horrible life tomake the cinematic journey worthwhile. No one involved in the production of “DarkPlaces” ever asked a crucial question: Why should we care?