“Ricki and the Flash” is a classic, and classicallylamentable, good-news/bad news proposition. In the good news department, it’slargely a sturdy, enjoyable domestic comedy drama. It showcases the sort oftypically amazingly diverse and eclectic cast only its directorJonathan Demmecan and would put together. When’s the last time you saw a movie that featuredboth “The Facts of Life” mother-figureCharlotte RaeAND Parliament/Funkadelickeyboard legend Bernie Worrell? That’s right, never. Then there’s thewhat-can’t-she-doMeryl Streepcredibly handling a Fender Telecaster andsinging classic rock tunes. A script byDiablo Codythat’s typically acute onthe Problems Of Quirky Contemporary Women front and refreshingly low on theostentatious gratuitous pop culture references. And so on. Advertisement The bad news is tougher to detail in good conscience as aspoiler-aware reviewer. The movie, not nearly as treacly a proposition as itstrailers suggest, opens with Streep’s Ricki leading her band through TomPetty’s “American Girl.” If these guys rock a little harder and tighter thanyour above-average bar band, it’s because they damn well should. Leadguitarist and some-time Ricki romanticinterest Greg isRick Springfield, a chart-topping dude back in the day as wellas an actor; bassist is the late Rick Rosas, longtime compatriot ofNeil Youngand others; the drummer is Joe Vitale, who came up with the Michael StanleyBand. On organ is the aforementioned Mr. Worrell. These vets, even onetime teenidol Springfield, are all relatively grizzled looking, but they’re making thesmallish clientele of a Tarzana bar pretty happy. The next day it’s back toreal life for frontwoman Ricki: a checkout lane at a Total Foods outlet, afictionalized version of a very organic chain with high Awful Bourgeois Appeal.Then there’s the phone call from the past. There’s always a phone call from thepast. In this case, it’s from a paststanding on a manicured lawn in the back of a McMansion in a cul de sac andcalling Ricki “Linda” (her given name).Kevin Kline’s Pete is the ex-husband Ricki left in the lurchafter bearing him three children and failing at domestic goddesshood. But it’squite a lurch he’s made for himself. Still ensconced in Indiana, he has achallenging but very lucrative professional life, a beautiful and sane secondwife Maureen (Audra MacDonald) and is still an involved dad to this three adultkids. The oldest of which, Julie (Mamie Gummer, Streep’s real-life daughter) ishaving a profound crisis after the breakup of her marriage. Absentee momRicki/Linda, who hasn’t boarded a jet since well before the creation of theTSA, does her duty and is greeted with surly resentment and seething hatred byJulie. Except Ricki also works some transformational magic on her daughter,routing her rage into a pleasure principle that involves getting priceymanicures on Julie’s soon-to-be-ex-husband’s dime. Ricki’s other kids are alittle less ambivalent about her sudden presence; it comes out that theyoungest hadn’t even intended to invite her to his wedding. And once Maureenreturns from visiting her own family, she’s not too excited that Ricki’s aroundeither. So far, so okay. One of the nicer things about the movie ishow it avoids overt clichés while still partaking of convention. One night inthe giant kitchen Ricki asks buttoned-down Pete why he’s got some pot in thefreezer; he said it was bootleg-prescribed by a coworker for his migraines. Theway for a WACKY pot-smoking scene is clear, but Demme and Cody don’t give usthat. They don’t even show Ricki, Pete, and Julie lighting up. Rather, themovie shows them in a semi-stoned family glow a little afterward, the heretoforemanic Julie finally getting some rest, Ricki singing one of her own tunes, andPete grappling with his own clearly very tortured feelings about his past andthe woman he’s now got staying in his house. It’s good stuff (and of courseit’s beautifully depicted by the uniformly great actors), reminiscent of the quirky moments of gracepeppered into a lot of Demme works, ranging as wide as “Melvin And Howard,”“Something Wild,” and “Married To The Mob.” Advertisement Now for the bad news. There’s a bit in the movie’s finalscene in which Springfield’s character rises from a table and announces “Webetter get out of here.” My advice to you—and it is very impractical advicebecause who wants to pay to see a movie and do this?—is that you get up andwalk out of “Ricki And The Flash” right then and there. Because what happensnext pretty much sells all the good honest work everyone involved has done upto this point down the river, in a conclusion that hard-sells a feel-goodcliché with such forced-grin inanity that it feels like a hallucination. “Musicis the healing power of the universe,” Albert Ayler said. I kind of believehim. I reckon that Demme believes him too. But not the way it’s depicted here.Here it’s more like “Music is the healing power of the I’m hiding under mycouch out of embarrassment for myself and everyone involved.”