The period spy thriller “The Man From U.N.C.L.E.” is onlyintermittently engaging and amusing, and those portions of the movie thatsucceed are also frustrating. Because they’re cushioned by enervated,conceptually befuddled, and sometimes outright indifferent stuff. Adapted from the genuine-article 1960s television series,which paired steely, no-nonsense, mid-Atlantic-accented veteran spy NapoleonSolo with younger slightly petulant Russian moptop Ilya Kuryakin,co-writer/directorGuy Ritchie’s film situates itself in an early Cold Warwherein J.F.K. is still giving inspiring speeches. This movie’s Solo (HenryCavill) struts his bespoke-suited self right into East Berlin to spirit outfeisty femme auto mechanic Gaby (Alicia Vikander), whose dad is an A-bombexpert now working, apparently against his will with some neo-fascist Italianshipping magnates out to spread nuke terror. Solo’s here working for theC.I.A.; hot on his trail is strong-jawed, Terminator-strong Kuryakin (ArmieHammer). A chase ensues with all three parties ducking each other and Kuryakinactually ripping the trunk door off of one of the cars involved. Solo and Gabycross the Berlin Wall by means of a sort of zipline; imagine Solo’s surprisewhen he soon learns that for his next mission he has to collaborate with theKGB agent who almost had him for dinner. Advertisement A gruff Agency honchoJared Harris, approximating a Texanaccent, delivers the news and he and his KGB counterpart debrief the unhappynew partners at a crowded outdoor café. Why these guys are spillinginternational secrets in a setting where they can be effortlessly overheard isthe source for one of the movie’s better visual gags. Alas, the movie doesn’thave too many more “gotcha!”s in its bag. The two spies soon touch down inItaly, where they flirt—Ilya with Gaby, and Solo with one of the neo-fascists,a blah femme fatale played byElizabeth Debicki—and do spy stuff. In thismovie’s reimagining of the characters, Solo has a backstory as a master thief,while Ilya is a chess-obsessed strong man with rage and daddy issues. Thisgives Cavill and Hammer amusing bits to enact, but, and here’s a big rub,whatever it is that Cavill and Hammer are supposed to bring to this movie, theydon’t. They fill out their clothes very nicely, it’s true, but other than thatthey are to charisma what black holes are to matter. “Flat” really doesn’t beginto cover it. Then there’s the direction. Ritchie clearly wants to revelin a pre-swinging-‘60s vibe, but he either can’t or won’t commit to it in a waythat yields any actual fun. Possibly he’s wary of bumping up against “AustinPowers”-style pastiche, but whatever the cause, when he’s not being incoherent,he’s being fussy. Even the soundtrack has a kind of stick up its fundament;it’s chock full of the Right Names in early ‘60s international (and largelyItalian) pop, but it’s largely lacking in infectiousness. Seriously, they couldhave thrown in a “Take It East My Brother Charlie” or something and only a jerklike me would have pointed out the anachronism. There are times when the movie uses its leads’ lack ofaffect in service of a cheeky sense of humor, as in Solo’s sojourn in the cabof a truck, after a frantic chase scene, sitting out (or so it seems) anear-fatal brush with danger for partner Ilya. But much of the time Richieseems uninterested in the action, although a final chase featuring a jeep, askeletal ATV, and a motorcycle unspools like a choose-your-own-adventure videogame, and I mean that in a good way. But the misfires are just as memorable, aswhen Richie and company use realistic evocations of Nazi atrocities to fill outthe character of one minor villain. And if you were lucky enough to have seenVikander in “Ex Machina” (and if you haven’t been you ought to change that),you’ll be profoundly appreciative of just how much she’s wasted here. She’sadorable anyway, however. Advertisement While it can’t be said thatHugh Grantsaves the movie, hisreturn to prominence in the last half hour, after a plot-seeding-walk-onearlier in the movie, peps things up considerably. Grant’s character is the onethat pulls the whole “U.N.C.L.E.” concept together, birthing an agency in whichKGB, C.I.A., and MI6 or 5 or whatever it is can cooperate to prevent mutualassured destruction or something like that. Kind of like that agency in thatother summer spy thriller that this summer spy thriller is not going to presentany serious competition to. In any event, an entire movie in which theweathered but still debonair Grant played the bluff, amiable puppetmaster tothe two hunky ciphers might have been great fun. I gather that Richie andcompany still want to make that movie. I have mixed feelings about whether theyought to, or will.