A woman dances alone in her apartment to the cheese '80s classic “It Takes a Muscle to Fall in Love” by Spectral Display. Her son anddaughter look at her swaying from behind her, amused as we all are when wecatch people with their guards down. Their mother turns around to revealrunning mascara and the expressions on the faces of her children change aswell. In many ways, this early scene is whatSam de Jong’s “Prince” is about—posturingand posing that hides something deeper. We are never at our more image-obsessedthan in the hazy, horny, love-sick days of our teenage years, and while “Prince”feels a little slight when the credits roll less than 80 minutes after itbegins, it’s still a strong, creative addition to the crowded coming-of-agegenre. Advertisement Our troubled young man this time is named Ayoub (engagingnewcomerAyoub Elasri). His mother is lonely, looking for love online butmostly failing. His half-sister is his most supportive ally, getting him morethan the barely-men with whom he spends most of his time hanging out, lookingat the common objects of teenage obsession—cars and girls. Ayoub’s dad is ajunkie, seen almost entirely in an abandoned, emptied pool in which he shootsup and basically avoids Ayoub’s attempts at connection. At one point, Ayoubtells him, “Dad, I’m in love,” and hejust laughs, knowing the trouble such a statement often leads to, and unable toreally offer any cogent advice. Ayoub is in love with a beautiful young woman named Laura(Sigrid ten Napel), who smiles at him and then tells her boyfriend about it.Laura’s boyfriend is one of the older, tougher guys on the other side of the street,and he doesn’t take too kindly to the young punk talking to his girl.Writer/director Sam de Jong crafts parallel groups. Ayoub and his friends arematched across the lot by what they might look like in ten years—another groupof dude-bros with more tattoos, muscles, and the beginning of crow’s feet. It’sthe same macho bullshit, tinged with more aggression and more failure. AndAyoub wants to nab Laura from its clutches before it’s too late. At the same time, an even darker predator than Laura’sboyfriend lurks on the fringe of “Prince” in the form of a local gangster namedKalpa (internationally known rapper Freddy Tratlehner). He drives a flashy carand his name is spoken in hushed tones. He’s clearly crazy. Can he teach Ayoubhow to stand up for himself? Can he be the father figure this young man soclearly needs but lacks? The first act of “Prince” is stylish and creative. It isabout the teen years of boredom and insecurity as much as anything. These kidswho think they’re men hang around in what looks like constant sunshine, doingalmost nothing but forming their identities in the process. De Jong and histeam often shoot from unique angles, like knee-level, and sometimes even allowthe characters to speak directly to the camera. This is the life of a teenager—stylized,exaggerated, but hollow. A synth-heavy score reminiscent of Cliff Martinez’swork on “Drive” gives the entire piece a unique flair. Advertisement As “Prince” gets more plot-heavy, especially in an emotionalfinal act that the young actors can’t quite handle, it gets a bit lessinteresting. Some of the decisions made by Ayoub, especially after he realizeshis sister has a boyfriend, feel forced. It’s hard to believe given its shortrunning time, but “Prince” actually needed less plot. It’s the way that “Prince”captures those hazy, confused days of teenage life with its own direct style thatworks, not the manipulative twists of its narrative climax. Luckily, none ofthe missteps of “Prince” derail the piece entirely. Like the emotionalminefields of adolescence, the characters quickly move on to the next beat, andwhen they walk into the future in the final scenes, I was surprised how much Ienjoyed my time with Ayoub and his buddies. I wondered where life would takethem from here. And that’s the sign of a good coming-of-age film—it captureshow this phase is not an ending but just a new beginning.