Althoughthere are approximately six billion things that I would rather do that sitthrough the dreadful thriller "Return to Sender" again in my lifetime, I must admit that there is one circumstance under which Imight contemplate a second viewing and that would be if the Blu-Ray (which mayhave already been released by the time that you reach the end of this sentence)includes a commentary track featuring screenwritersPatricia Beauchampand JoeGossett and/or directorFouad Mikati. Perhaps by listening to them, I couldfinally begin to understand what it was that they were going for since itcertainly isn't evident in the final product, which seems to exist only toanswer the unasked question "What would "I Spit on Your Grave"have been like if the main character had been Martha Stewart?" Advertisement On thesurface, Miranda Wells (Rosamund Pikein a role that, it probably goes withoutsaying, she shot before finally getting her mainstream breakthrough with herOscar-nominated turn in "Gone Girl") seems to have it all—she is about to begin training as a surgical nurse at thehospital where she works, she is preparing to buy a new house with the doubleoven that she covets and spend her spare time baking cakes that would make theCake Boss himself weep into his fondant—except, naturally, for afella. (Of course, one might point out that this might be due to the fact thatshe is fairly cold and curt to everyone she encounters, even family andfriends, but never mind.) To that end, she agrees to go out on a blind datewith the acquaintance of a friend. When the day arrives, the guy (ShilohFernandez) turns up much earlier than expected and even though he looks morelike a busboy than anything else, Miranda, a major control freak in virtuallyevery other area of her life, invites him in without hesitation while she getsdressed. This turns out to be a bad move because the guy, William, is not herexpected date but a brute who proceeds to violently rape her in her kitchen. Williamis caught and prosecuted almost immediately but even though her attacker is offthe streets, Miranda is unable to move on herself and even develops a nervoustwitch that sidelines both her medical future and cake frosting abilities. (Cuethe moment when she breaks out into a rage after failing to master an"Operation" game.) As a way of getting control of her life at last,she begins writing to William in prison in the hopes of being allowed to visitwith him. Although he returns her letters at first (which explains theotherwise nonsensical title), he finally relents and thus begins a long chunkof the narrative devoted to the two of them getting to know each other andMiranda even flirting with him a bit. Thanks to his good behavior, William isparoled (in what seems to be a ridiculously short amount of time) and Mirandaeven allows him to help rehab her house in scenes that seem like outtakes fromsomeNicholas Sparksnonsense. Does Miranda think that getting to know andunderstand the man who attacked her will provide the catharsis she needs ordoes she have something more sinister in mind? I wouldn't dream of suggestingwhich path she takes but if you are curious, the posters and trailers areperfectly willing to supply that information. If thisall sounds utterly ridiculous and borderline offensive in the retelling, thatis nothing compared to seeing it actually play out before your eyes. There isnot a single plausible moment or recognizable bit of human behavior in any oneof its 93 minutes and virtually every line of dialogue is of the tin-earedvariety. ("There are other options than having your rapist over fordinner!") The filmmakers display absolutely no insight or interest intothe plight of survivors of rape outside of the apparent glee that went into thechoreography of the attack itself (the rest of the film, by comparison, has theflat, forgettable look of the Lifetime movie that this probably should havebeen in the first place). As for her diabolical plan for vengeance, it fails becausea.) the plan is so idiotically conceived that there is not a single step thatdoesn't contain at least one glaring gap in logic and b.) it is executed sopoorly that even the most revenge-hungry viewers will be left wanting by thelack of any real catharsis. Advertisement Ofcourse, "Gone Girl" had its head-scratching moments as well, but onewas able to overlook them thanks to David Fincher's flawless direction and theincredible performance by Pike. Here, Mikati's direction is sothumb-heavy that he almost seems to be accentuating the implausibilities of thestory.  Pike, whois probably embarrassed beyond belief that this is seeing the light of day,tries her best, but not even her undeniable gifts are enough to make sense out of the screenplay or make her character into anything other than a wildlyunpleasant dope. As her attacker, Fernandez fails to convince eitheras a menace or as someone who may genuinely be trying to make amends for hisunforgivable past. As Miranda's father,Nick Noltewanders in and out of scenesevery once in a while, and when he leaves, most viewers will want to join him. "Returnto Sender" is dreck of the lowest kind—asleazy exploitation film that is all the worse because it has somehow convinceditself that it is thoughtful and profound. For anyoneinterested in a well-told story, its failings at the most basic narrativelevels will seem appalling. For anyone who has been a victim of sexualviolence, its weirdly dated approach to rape and its aftermath will come acrossas enraging. For fans of Rosamund Pike, seeing her talents wasted on junk likethis will be an enormous bummer alleviated only by the fact that she willhopefully be able to avoid this kind of trash in her post-"Gone Girl"career. As for me, I think I am going to take back what I said before aboutpossibly watching "Return to Sender" to hear the commentary track.