Michael andMark Polish’s “Twin Falls Idaho” announced thearrival of major new talents, and their follow-up, “Northfork,” was an evenmore impressive affair. Lyrical, poetic and dramatically engaging, “Northfork”divided critics, but those on its wavelength really connected with the film. It’shard to see many people connecting withMichael Polish’s latest, thefrustrating and ultimately annoying “Amnesiac.” Even the barely-released “BigSur” (the director’s last film) had the visual confidence the filmmakerdisplayed in previous works, even if it was unsatisfying. Much like “Self/Less,”“Amnesiac” feels like a director-for-hire gig for an artist too talented forthe job. Advertisement Two people exchange furtive glances as a girl we presume istheir daughter sleeps in the backseat. The music swells as they drive along anempty highway. Who are these people? Why are they so nervous? Polish does asolid job of setting tone immediately. Something seems wrong. Are they on therun? They glance back one too many times and the girl screams. Cut to an old house without much furniture. The man (WesBentley), who goes unnamed through the piece, now lays in a bed in a poorly litroom. He’s been injured. He has no memory of who is or what he’s done. The woman(Kate Bosworth), also unnamed, takes care of him. Her hair is tight in a bun,she wears business shoes and attire. She closes all the shades in a room thatappears to only have a bed. Clearly, something is not normal here. The music,the tone, Bosworth’s dead-eyed delivery—it all hints at a “Misery” situation—perhapsthe man has been kidnapped by the woman now claiming to be his wife—or somethingeven crazier. And where is the girl who was the back seat? Things get stranger before the plot settles into its Time toExplain Everything Act, and this odd, Lynchian chapter of the film is clearlyof the most interest to Poland. The Woman is constantly spouting non-sequitursand odd bits of trivia (you’ll learn why you don’t see B batteries, forexample), and Bosworth has a terrifying way of saying things like “Elephants are dying of coronaries” in ablank, creepy affect. Of course, it’s not long before the Man suspects thingsare not what the Woman claims them to be, and not long before he finds a bodyin the cellar. From here, “Amnesiac” kind of falls apart, strained by thelength of a feature film imposed on a short film screenplay. There’s just notenough to “Amnesiac” and the strained narrative simply comes apart, especiallyin awkward inserts in which a police officer answers phone calls that may berelated to the case that are simply ridiculous and kill the tone of the rest ofthe piece. There are glimpses of the B-movie chaos that could havesprouted from “Amnesiac.” There’s one scene in particular, in which Bosworthdons a fur coat and carries an electronic hacksaw, that takes the Grand Guignolapproach the whole piece needed. Instead, “Amnesiac” falls into that chasm inbetween gory, ridiculous fun and realism. We have no reason to care about theMan and Woman, and less so as the mysteries of the story reveal themselves. Thestory doesn’t provide it, and neither does the filmmaking. Buried under thedullness is a fun performance from Bosworth and the occasional visual flairfrom Polish that he used to imbue in every frame. The rest of “Amnesiac”?Pretty forgettable. Advertisement