The connection between the legendary George Mallory andrenowned climberConrad Anker, one of the subjects “Meru” is more than justhistorical. Believe it or not, Anker is the man who found Mallory’s body onMount Everest in 1999, which made headlines around the world. Anker also seemsto wholeheartedly subscribe to the theory captured by Mallory’s three mostfamous words: “Because it’s there.” Inthat oft-quoted phrase, so much of the human desire to surmount the impossibleis captured. Although the quote is often misinterpreted as a way to offer proofof inconsequential reasons to do what logic tells us we should not. Anotherinterpretation is that there aren’t words to capture why people go to the Moon,come back from the brink of death, or climb Mount Everest. They just do.Because it’s there. The men of “Meru” tried to go to a place that all commonsense dictated they should not. They tried to climb a sheer wall that no onehad ever climbed before. Their story is undeniably interesting. However, andthis is the tricky part about reviewing documentaries, the movie about thatstory is flawed. A bit too much time is spent in admiration and hero worshipover the indefatigable will of these men, when it is the footage on thatmountainside that matters. It’s a story that speaks for itself, and so theemphasis on talking heads explaining it to us is dispiriting. Advertisement The Shark’s Fin on Mount Meru has long been the ultimateprize in mountain climbing. It is a ridiculous creation of Mother Nature,perched over 20,000 feet above the Ganges River and essentially flat andstraight-up. It is not a mountain; it is a wall. At the most challenging partof its ascent, climbers often travel 200 meters in ONE DAY. That’s theinch-by-inch progress it takes to get to the top. And if you plan poorly ormerely get hit by bad weather, you better turn around if you ever want to seeyour family again. As explained in the film, it is the anti-Everest in thatthere are no Sherpas. No help. No one to do the grunt work. You are on your ownclimbing a smooth, featureless face. In October 2008, Conrad Anker,Jimmy Chin(credited withco-directing “Meru”) and Renan Ozturk tried to tackle Meru. They filmed much ofthe perilous journey, and this material is easily the strongest in “Meru.” Whenthe filmmakers stop the musical score and stop the narration, and simply allowus to listen to the wind and the snow pummeling these men, the physicalchallenge is palpable. The trio failed in 2008. In a remarkable scene, they lookalmost close enough to the summit to touch it, but they figure out that the sunwill set soon, they have nowhere to camp, and they would not survive theconditions. They look like they literally could throw something to the top, butthey have to turn back and go all the way back down. They were 100 meters away. Defeated, it looks unlikely that the trio will go backagain. In an interesting footnote not given enough attention, Jimmy revealsthat it was the failure of another group of climbers to reach the top thatreally got him thinking about attempting it again. There’s something soattractive about being thefirst.Risking your life to be #2 isn’t as exciting. And so after some remarkablespeed bumps are placed in their way but surpassed, the trio takes another shotat it. “Meru” works best, by far, in its “You Are There” moments.You hear heavy breathing, the elements whip the tent, and it sounds like theworld is ending. At one point in the first climb—and it’s really why it failed—theyare stuck, literally, on the side of the mountain for FOUR DAYS, as theelements made it impossible to move. Why would anyone do this? Negative 20degree weather in the shade. Why do it beyond “Because it’s there”? “Meru”doesn’t really go into that, which would be fine, if it didn’t spend so muchtime talking about mountain climbing. The film is weighed down with interviewfootage, a lot of which is essentially fan service—how great these guys are,how courageous they are, how tough they are. And I’m not arguing they’re not,just questioning the cinematic value of such an approach. “Meru” is billed asan awe-inspiring nature documentary, and it works best when it remembers to beone. Advertisement