John Magary’s “The Mend” opens with a mesmerizing prologuethat really serves as a miniature version of the film that will follow. Insnippets of scenes, we meet the unkempt Mat (Josh Lucas), who screws hisgirlfriend Andrea (Lucy Owens), then fights with her, then leaves her, thendrinks some more, then wanders New York City, etc. It is a series of citymoments in the life of an urban wanderer, until Mat ends up at a party at his brotherAlan’s house (Stephen Plunkett). Alan and his girlfriend Farrah (Mickey Sumner)haven’t seen Mat in three months, as he’s been off on another one of his “anger spirals.” We all know people like Mat,the kind of guy we only run into at parties or hear stories about from friends.He’s not exactly dangerous, but not exactly trustworthy or reliable. He’s thekind of guy who breaks a bottle in the kitchen and keeps cooking, somehow stillsurprised when he steps on broken glass a few minutes later. Advertisement The first half-hour of “The Mend” consists of the party atwhich Mat socially reenters his brother’s world. Magary shows great skill,especially for a first-time filmmaker, at capturing the loose, free-formconversations of social gatherings that somehow end up going till dawn. Onemoment, conversation is serious, the next it’s lighthearted. One moment, Mat iseying the new girl across the living room, the next she’s on his lap. Magarycuts into scenes mid-conversation, allowing us to get to know the mostimportant people in the room—Mat, Alan and Farrah—carefully, and through theirinteractions with others. We can tell Alan is a bit more forgiving of humanfaults than Mat, although it’s immediately clear that his relationship withFarrah is strained. He’s overly opinionated (she tells him rather cuttingly, “Getting out an opinion first doesn’t make itOR you more interesting”) and can be self-centered. And yet he’s going topropose to Farrah on a trip to Canada the next day. Alan and Farrah wake up late from the party, rushing to theairport with only 90 minutes until their plane takes off. They don’t evennotice that Mat is still in their apartment. And that’s where he stays for thenext few days, even reuniting with his girlfriend and letting her and her kidstay there. They kind of squat in Mat’s space. They’ll deal with the falloutwhen he returns. The set-up for “The Mend” might make you think that this isa redemption story. Careless, misanthropic people often learn their lessons inindependent cinema, realizing they’ve become the estranged fathers they bemoanor the kind of asshole they would hate to talk to at a party. What’s greatabout “The Mend” is that it never goes exactly where you expect it to go.Magary is constantly defying moralization, letting his characters breathe anddrink and screw and laugh and fight and so on and so on. It’s a characterstudy, not a commentary, and those are fewer and farther between than you mightthink in an era of Statement Cinema. As for performance, Josh Lucas gives the best of his career,finding just the right tone for Mat, a guy who couldn’t care less what anyonethinks of him, but he still needs a place to stay. He’s subconsciously selfish,such as when his girl’s ex, who she clearly hates, comes over to pick up herson and he hits him up for career advice. When asked what he does, hebrilliantly adds a question mark to “Freelanceweb design?” Crashing on couches and alcohol poisoning are not yet viablecareers. He does a lot of nothing. Wandering through NYC when he feels likegetting off the couch. But a lot of actors would have turned Mat into aself-loathing boor. Lucas recognizes that Mat doesn’t hate himself. At leastnot yet. And Plunkett is fantastic, matching him beat for beat in the way hecaptures the fact that brotherly love and resentment can exist in the samemoment. When Magary’s dialogue gets a bit too theatrical andself-conscious in the final act, you notice just because of how strong it’sbeen for the previous 80 minutes. There are a few arguments that don’t quitesound right, the product of a first-time filmmaker honing his style. However,these are minor complaints for a film that announces a major new talent. Advertisement