DownersGrove is a suburb of Chicago that over the years has served as the home of anabsolutely lovely old movie palace known as the Tivoli, actressDenise Richardsand several members of my immediate family. These are all endeavors that thetown can be more or less proud of but that is not the case in regards to"The Curse of Downers Grove," an alternately idiotic and boringhorror thriller that happens to take place there. Of course, no actual DownersGrovians were harmed during its making--it was shot in California and boy, doesit look it.  However, a lack of scenicverisimilitude is the least of the problems on display with this bleak and uglymess. Advertisement Basedvery loosely on MIchael Hornburg's 1999 novel "Downers Grove," thefilm opens by informing viewers about the so-called "Curse of DownersGrove," in which a senior at thelocal high school supposedly dies every year in some freakish manner in thedays leading up to graduation. We see a flashback to the previous year'stragedy, in which a punk whacked out on meth plummets from the local water towerin front of his friends, none of whom seem especially put out. Is the cursereal, the possible result of the school having been built atop an Indian burialground, or is it a bunch of nonsense devised to provide an explanation forotherwise random tragic events? Most of the students think that there is acurse but our heroine, Chrissie (Bella Heathcoate), feels otherwise. However,Chrissie has her own problems to deal with that are more pressing than apossible curse. After her mother (Helen Slater) goes out of town for a few dayswith her new boyfriend—the kind of thing that all parents do five days beforetheir oldest child is to graduate—and leaves her and her younger brother(Martin Spanjers) behind, she and best friend Tracy (Penelope Mitchell) go offto a party in a neighboring town. While at the party, she is cornered bydrug-addled star football player Chuck (Kevin Zegers), and when he tries to rapeher in a bathroom, she pokes out his eye before fleeing with Tracy, hurling acar battery into the car of jocks pursuing them for good measure. With hisfuture as a football star now in ruins, as he is constantly reminded by hisabusive father (Tom Arnold), Chuck begins a campaign ofharassment against Chrissie that starts with veiled threats against her, herbrother and her friends and then escalates rapidly to include brutally beatingher brother, setting fire to her locker and dumping a bunch of freshly killeddogs on her front lawn. Alas, Chuck's father is a former cop, so even thoughChuck has committed any number of serious offenses, the local police refuse tolift a finger to investigate Chrissie's numerous complaints. As a result, sheis forced to take matters into her own hands and with the help of a localmechanic she has a crush on (Lucas Till), the neighbor boy with a not-so-secretcrush on her (Mark L. Young), Tracy, her brother and the loaded shotgun thathas been conveniently left behind at her place, Chrissie prepares for a finalonslaught from Chuck and his sadistic sidekicks. Through all of this, Chrissieis forced to consider whether these events are indeed proof that the curse isindeed real and that she is meant to be this year's victim. Advertisement Basedsolely on the title and the basic premise, one might assume that "TheCurse of Downers Grove" is one of those supernatural slasher films likethe "Final Destination" series in which a bunch of attractiveteenagers are bumped off in bizarre fashions. However, after setting up thewhole conceit of the curse, the film then proceeds to essentially ignore it(other than the occasional Oliver Stone-inspired nightmare cutaways involvingbloodshed and Indians) in order to tell a more straightforward story of aninnocent girl fending off her increasingly deranged stalker in a town wherekids seem to have the run of everything and adults are either ineffectual,monstrous or nowhere to be seen. Although those forking over ticket money inthe hopes of a straightforward horror film might disagree, this is notnecessarily a bad idea for a story but neither co-writerBret Easton Ellis(thebad boy author of "Less Than Zero," "The Rules ofAttraction" and "American Psycho") nor directorDerick Martiniseem to have any idea of what they are trying to say or how to say it. Thescreenplay contains plenty of the casual nihilism and physical/emotionalcruelty of Ellis's work but since it doesn't connect with viewers, either asserious drama or as dark satire, it all just feels hollow and ugly. For hispart, Martini is clearly trying to go for a stylized, hyper-real effect inwhich everything looks normal but is a bit off but his results are off in allthe wrong ways—the film feels as if it was made by someone who has beencharged with making something in the tradition of "Blue Velvet" and"Donnie Darko" but who never actually got around to seeing them andis basing his work on what he thinks was in them. Too dumbto be scary, too listlessly written and directed to be suspenseful and toounpleasant to work as camp, "The Curse of Downers Grove" is a filmthat has absolutely nothing going for it other than a reasonably sympatheticlead performance from Bella Heathcoate, the young actress who made an impressionin "Dark Shadows" and "Not Fade Away" and who deserves towork with better material than she is dealing with her. That said, if I had tosee this film again, I would love to see it in Downers Grove, preferably at theTivoli, with a theater full of locals. My guess is that those who make it tothe end will come away from it annoyed by the film as a whole, amused by thenumerous ways in which it demonstrates that it clearly was not filmed in thearea and wishing that they had just set the damn thing in Hinsdale. Advertisement