Does the world really need another movie about Evel Knievel?Well it depends. The pioneering (in a sense) motorcycle daredevil has alreadybeen the subject of two fiction films(one in which he played himself, or “himself”), one self-produced documentary,a good number of television specials and retrospectives. Knievel himself passedaway in 2007—not in any kind of stunt accident but rather from a pulmonaryailment, exacerbated, reportedly, by Hepatitis C, which the performer likelycontracted from one of countless blood transfusions—and the above-mentionedmovies have long been forgotten by all but the most dedicated cultists. Whichis, in a way, too bad. The first fictional Knievel movie, in 1971, starred GeorgeHamilton as the cycle maniac andStanley Kubrick’s Lolita,Sue Lyon, as hiswife. 1977’s “Viva Knievel,” which featuredthe man himself at the height of his hubris (he didn’t cotton to having beenplayed by Hamilton six years before) costarredGene Kelly(!) and was directedby deft Hollywood journeymanGordon Douglas. Given Knievel’s generaldisposition at the height of his fame, directing him is (to paraphrase SteveAlbini) a job I wouldn’t wish on a dog I didn’t like. Advertisement Anyway. The point is that the phenomenon that was EvelKnievel—and he was indeed a phenom—doesn’t get much recognition in contemporaryculture, despite the fact that, as interview subject and co-producer of themovieJohnny Knoxvillenotes early on, the guy kind of invented extreme sports.This highly conventional, intermittentlyengaging example of the Entertainment Documentary (you know, the kind thatlivens up its talking heads with rear-projected imagery behind them, andfeatures animated reenactments, that sort of thing) outlines how this cocky kidfrom Butte, Montana became a post P.T. Barnum icon by essentially riskingsuicide every time he got on a chopper. Discovering early on that he was kindof thrill crazy, he started using his cycle to jump over cars without any kindof mathematical calculation or preparation. He just got the cars lined up, putup the ramps, and went. This method held for quite some time, up to hisill-fated but fame-producing missed-it-by-that-much jump over the fountains ofVegas’ Caesar’s Palace and beyond. This haphazard approach led to spectacular successes andperhaps even more spectacular failures. The footage of his crash after clearingthe Vegas fountains was the most replayed clip of its time. Similarlycringe-inducing is a scene from earlier in his career, in which he tries tojump over an oncoming cycle, misjudges the timing, and takes a horrific spill.The guy had a capacity for physical punishment that was equal to if not greaterthan his talent for self-promotion. The movie interviews dozens of sports andmedia figures, including the recently passed Frank Gifford, who interviewedKnievel frequently on “Wide World Of Sports,” and they all have wild, hairystories of Knievel’s bravery and wiliness. There’s also bracing period footageof Knievel being a scowling jackass at Snake River Canyon, the site of one ofhis most poorly conceived stunts, in which he attempted to rocket over theaforementioned geological gap after being thwarted for over a decade in hisquest to jumpsomethingover theGrand Canyon. The movie is certainly colorful—this is a guy who, when hehad it made, lived VERY large, even if he continued on what seemed like a questto break every bone in his body multiple times. And it tells, as it keepsreminding us, a very American story. For all that, though, it doesn’tilluminate the guy’s character beyond what’s obvious. Nor does it bestow muchdepth upon Knievel. No, he’s not a monster on the level of Jack “Pal” Smurch inJames Thurber’s caustic short story “The Greatest Man In The World.” Althoughhe’s depicted as behaving pretty badly, particularly with respect towomen-chasing, what he does isn’t all that unusual in the annals of late 20th Century rags-to-riches guys who become dickheads when they’ve got some cash intheir pockets. There is, finally, evenin his most vividly temper-flaring moments, something of a cipher about him.I’m not sure if it’s the movie (competently directed byDaniel Junge, alsoof “A LEGO Brickumentary”) or if it’shim. Either way, it makes “Being Evel” a less-than-exemplary rep rehabilitationproject. Advertisement