“Like most people today, Judy was a cynic and was offendedby the slightest hint of fantasy.” So reads a portion of the opening text ofthe new movie directed and co-written (with his now former wife, LouiseStratten) byPeter Bogdanovich. This clunky observation, I think, misreads themodern or post-modern condition rather grievously. Cynicism today is in factfed by fantasy, or at least delusion; it’s a mask that affects to connote areckoning with The Real, which in fact merely enables its wearers to distractthemselves from the true horror of the world as it is today. But anyway. Advertisement Judy, played byIlleana Douglas, is a Hollywood reporter,interviewing newly minted star Isabella Patterson, or “Izzy” who, as played bythe nonetheless appealingImogen Poots, speaks with a thick approximation of aBrooklyn accent that’s meant to evoke Judy Holliday in “Born Yesterday” or“Bells Are Ringing” but doesn’t even get within swinging distance of Madonna in“Who’s That Girl.” Accents aren’t even the main problem with “She’s Funny,” inwhich Bogdanovich tries to merge the multiple-New-York-storylined romantic comedyantics of his underappreciated 1981 masterpiece (yes, it is) “They All Laughed”with the backstage-at-the-theatre-full-of-lunatics antics of “Noises Off.” Themovie sure is good-hearted enough. It’s a labor of love, it would seem, for allinvolved. Several younger-filmmaker admirers of Bogdanovich—the one-time tyrobehind “The Last Picture Show” and other outstanding films of the “Easy Riders,Raging Bulls” era—teamed up here to produce the long-gestating picture. NoahBaumbach,Wes AndersonandGeorge Drakouliasare all credited as executiveproducers. Their clout, plus Bogdanovich’s reputation, and the goodwill he’sgarnered over years of working as an actor, no doubt helped pull together awonderful cast, includingOwen Wilson,Kathryn Hahn,Rhys Ifans,Will Forte,Jennifer Aniston,Austin Pendleton, and a lifeboat’s worth of recognizablecameo players. On paper, the premise of the movie is not untenable. OwenWilson plays theater director Arnold, in New York after working on a Hollywoodpicture, about to embark on a new stage project starring superstar pal Seth(Ifans), Arnold’s own wife Delta (Hahn), and a supporting player in the role ofa hooker to be named later. Speaking of hookers, Arnold’s got a weird habit: helikes to solicit call girls, take them to a nice dinner, boink the bejesus outof them (“You are the most…attentive kinda lover,” Izzy says to Arnold aftertheir sole amorous pairing) and then gift them with $30,000, telling them togive up The Life and go pursue their dreams. He couches this pitch around aspeech featuring the catchphrase “Squirrels to the nuts,” which had at onepoint been the title of the movie. One marvels at a world in which even themost successful of contemporary theater directors could repeatedly depart with30 large with such indiscrimination. And that’s part of the problem with thismovie. Despite its preponderance of mullets among its younger players, “TheyAll Laughed” was at least a little conversant enough with the then-realities ofNew York City life; as such, it could present a recognizable world. The levelof “fantasy” to which this movie actively aspires is so idealistic as to belaughable, but not in an entirely good way. Old-movie lover Izzy at one pointsays to Judy, about a playwright who falls in love with her, “He was exactlywhat I imagined a playwright to be, and he was theArthur Millerto myMarilyn.” No, no, a thousand times no. Too many times the characters in thismovie sprint across the line separating quirky charm from know-somethingish affectation,and then stay on the wrong side of it. Advertisement And this erodes the sunny farcicaltone to which “She’s Funny That Way”aspires. It’s as if somewhere along the way this wannabe champagne got spikedwith eager-to-please bennies. There are some good, funny bits, one involving acab driver’s vivid protest against having to sit through a feuding couple’sdisagreement. Aniston’s reluctant therapist character, weirdly shrill at first,actually gets funnier over the course of the movie, while Wilson underplays nicelythroughout. He could have been the picture’s anchor, but the freneticmachinations of the plot spin it away from him. Then there’s the finale, inwhich the viewer ignorant of old movies gets a vivid primer in Lubitsch from areal-life filmmaker and film buff. It’s kind of cute and kind of…weird, whichwould be fine, only it doesn’t know how weird it is. Given the narrow range ofthis movie’s overall achievement, I imagine its preaching here will only reachthe already converted.