“Grandma” is a modestly scaled character comedy-drama thatwinds up exerting an almost shockingly strong emotional force by the end. Iwalked into a screening of the film a mild skeptic, and I left nearly in tears,and grateful for where writer-directorPaul Weitzand a remarkable cast led byLily Tomlintook me. Written and directed by Paul Weitz, whose well-intentionedbut spotty track record (prior films include “Admission,” “Being Flynn,” and“About A Boy,” which for me ran a gamut from mildly enjoyable to activelyirritating) was part of what lowered my expectations, “Grandma" opens withTomlin’s character, Elle, an aged poet with a strong feminist cult rep,apparently, being super unpleasant to Olivia (Judy Greer), the youngergirlfriend she’s dumping. Left alone in her house, she sits in a commencementcap and gown looking over old photographs; the shutting out of Olivia, theviewer can infer, isn’t the only loss Elle has recently suffered. Turning up atthe door is Elle’s curly-headed, gaminesque granddaughter Sage (JuliaGarner). Sage is in a non-gaminesquepredicament: pregnant, broke, and scheduled to have an abortion in about eighthours. Advertisement Why Sage hasn’t gone to her own mom, from whom Elle issomewhat estranged, why Elle herself only has about forty bucks available atthe moment, why Elle and Sage set out in a perhaps-not-impeccably maintainedvintage Dodge: all these are questions answered in ways that are best actuallyseen, rather than described in a review. I really didn’t think Weitz had thiskind of screenplay in him. It’s incredibly literate—the movie actually has morepertinent things to communicate about both the inner and outer life of a writerthan the unfortunately-much-bruited “The End of the Tour” does—and amusinglyliterary, with one character dropping the word “solipsist” as an epithet in afunny argument scene. He divides the scenes as chapters, with their titlestyped in lower case on a simulation of fine bond paper. Sage and Elle get toknow each other better, even as Elle can’t get over the fact that hergranddaughter’s never heard of "The Feminine Mystique." But Elle’s politics and aestheticsget shaken up at the same time as their quest for cash begins “rattling theskeletons” of the characters’ respective pasts. At the outset I was kind of concerned that the movie wasmaking a point of evoking Elle’s counterculture values the better to caricaturethem for comedic purposes. But no. The movie examines those values, notentirely uncritically, but it alsolargely ends up affirming them, particularly with respect to women’s rights.One of the film’s most striking scenes, titled “the ogre,” finds Elle, who’slived as a lesbian for longer than her granddaughter’s been alive, meeting upwith an old acquaintance, Karl, played by an initially genialSam Elliott. Thescene’s almost a pocket history of the 1960s—its glories and its foibles. AndElliott gives a performance that sets the movie on emotional fire. It’sabsolutely spectacular stuff. By the time this scene turns up, it’s clear thatthis movie is not one that seeks to use the one-time edginess of Tomlin’scomedic persona as a repository for sentimentality, but rather to set it afireand let it burn. This is a much neater film than those in which Tomlin workedwith directorRobert Altman, but its commitment to emotional truth is as strongas any Altman movie you could name. And it holds true to that commitment withthe introduction of Sage’s mom, played beautifully byMarcia Gay Harden. Is this a political movie? Well, in the United States, anymovie in which abortion is treated as a standard medical procedure performed bytrained and concerned medical professionals as opposed to Something Not Done, or a Traumatic LifeRuining Moment, is by definition a political movie. For that reason alone the movie will attract controversy; itapproaches women’s self-determination without even the vaguest hint of apology.I don’t want to set the comments section on fire but I’ve got to say I’mentirely sympathetic to this perspective. But the politics—including the waythe movie doesn’t just “pass” the “Bechdel Test” but gets 100 on it—are only apart of this really special movie. The other part is, yes, the humanity. Theway the movie shows the toll taken by bonds sundered, and the healing madepossible by bonds that are restored, however tentatively. And there’s alsohumor, and plenty of it. While brief in running time, “Grandma” is a smallmovie that doesn’t feel slight. Advertisement