Stan Mietus is the kind of role model that we all hope ourchildren someday encounter in their lives. When we send our kids off to schoolor to athletic programs, we place an incredible amount of trust in the peoplepaid to teach and coach them. Mietus understands, as clichéd as it sounds, thathe’s teaching young people that it’s really not whether you win or lose, buthow you play the game and how you respond to adversity that defines yourcharacter. He’s teaching teamwork, confidence, and, yes, that life is unfair.You will lose in life, but it’s how you respond that matters more than thelosing. Mietus is one of the central figures inMaria Finitzo’s “In the Game,”premiering at the Siskel Film Center tomorrow, August 22nd, withscreenings throughout the next week (go here for more details).It’s a project from Kartemquin Films, the brilliant people behindSteve James’ “LifeItself,” and the best sports documentary of all time, “Hoop Dreams.” Much likethat film, Finitzo uses sports—girls’ soccer this time—to comment on otherissues, including income inequality and gender roles, but she does so with alight tough, always keeping the focus on the players on the field more than theentire game. Advertisement For four years, Finitzo and her crew went back to Kelly HighSchool on Chicago’s Southwest side, catching up with Mietus and the players onhis soccer team. The first of these young women we meet was up until 2am thenight before studying and woke at 4:30am for soccer practice, which takes placein the hall sometimes because there’s not enough space in the gym and they don’thave a working field. It’s a school that’s 83% Latino and 86% below the povertyline. Over the course of “In the Game,” we will watch young women forced tomake life’s difficult decisions, often between school and work to help supporttheir families. These are decisions made every day in major cities around theworld, and “In the Game” is a stark reminder of how quickly life can forceteenagers to become adults, especially when they don’t have the luxury ofmaking any other choice. What’s most fascinating about “In the Game,” and it’sremarkable how much Finitzo allows this element to unfold naturally and withoutunderlining, is that the young ladies that the film captures all have astriking resilience about them. Some will be faced with tragedy. Some will befaced with closed doors. Some will be faced with heartbreak. And yet they holdtheir heads up high and keep going in ways that I don’t believe everyonewould. I think a lot of that credit can go back to Mietus and the fortitude onegains from team sports the way he teaches them. There are times in life whenyour opponent will have more privilege, such as when Kelly plays Whitney Young,one of the top soccer high schools in the country. They have no chance ofwinning. And yet they play. They get out there. They work as a team. The ideathat we can persevere against a system that often stacks the deck against us isas important as any we can learn. “In the Game” doesn’t position itself as a “statement film.”There are no statistics emblazoned on the screen. It is a study of one school athleticprogram and its players. And yet it feels more important than that. It feelsempowering, even inspirational. You will lose some games. In life, you will play somegames that you never had a chance of winning. But the important thing is thatyou keep playing.