Alex Ross Perry’s “Queen of Earth” is as unsettling as anyhorror film that you’ll see this year but it so by virtue of its filmmaking andits performances instead of a twisting and turning narrative. Echoing dramas ofinternal conflict turned into threats of physical danger like “Persona” and “Repulsion,”Perry explores the concept that it is the human mind and its emotional undercurrentsthat is the most terrifying thing in the world. Anchored by incredibleperformances fromElisabeth MossandKatherine Waterston, this is one of themost mesmerizing pictures of the year. Advertisement “Queen of Earth” opens with a tone-defining close-up ofCatherine (Moss). Her makeup has run into bags around her eyes, her hair isdisheveled, and she is emotionally drained. It is brutal, unsparing and direct.Perry doesn’t pull back and offer much coverage, just a couple close-ups ofCatherine’s now-ex-boyfriend James (Kentucker Audley). He is breaking up withher, and she is not taking it well, noting that this is the kind of emotionalblow, coming shortly after the death of her father, that will devastate her. Aswe will quickly learn, Catherine was one of those people who was deeplyco-dependent on two men in her life—her father and her boyfriend. When theformer dies and the latter leaves her, she will be totally adrift and border onunstable. To try to bring her back to Earth, friend Virginia(Waterston), Ginny to her friends butonlyher friends, invites Catherine to spend the weekend at her family’s cabin inthe woods. EditorRobert Greenedeftly intercuts back to a similar weekend ayear ago in which the roles were reversed—Catherine was there with James andVirginia was the lonely third wheel, resentful that a girls’ weekend turnedinto a triangle. Almost subconsciously (but maybe not so sub-) creating the same dynamic a year later, Virginiainvites her neighbor Rich (Patrick Fugit) to spend time with her and Catherineon this sun-kissed weekend. Catherine hates Rich. It could be just because he representsa gender she doesn’t feel like seeing right now, or that, like Virginia lastyear, she resents her emotional healing being invaded. If this all sounds like the set-up for a mumblecore drama,you’re not wrong. And yet “Queen of Earth” has a very different tone than thework ofJoe Swanberg. First, there’s the unusual friendship between Virginiaand Catherine, two people who can be devastatingly, dangerously honest witheach other. They take stabs at each other to see how much the other one will emotionallybleed. They are kind of awful to one another in the way friends know the buttonsto push that enemies do not. Ginny accuses Catherine of living in her father’sshadow and tied to her ex-boyfriend, almost as if she’s pushing her frienddeeper into depression, knowing she has to face some realities before she canreturn to normalcy. And Perry very carefully focuses more often on thelistener, more interested in the impact of what’s being said on the person whohears it than the act of saying it. Advertisement That impact pushes Catherine closer to the edge of sanity.She tells a visitor one night, “You know,I could kill you and no one would know,” and Moss delivers the line withjust the right mix of humor and truth, as if she’s only half-kidding. Perryalso uses ominous music throughout “Queen of Earth,” much like thepsychological thrillers from the ‘70s that the film sometimes cribs from,raising tension through score as much as action. Wefeelsomething bad is going to happen. Will Catherine kill herself?Kill someone else? Her world has shattered and every way in which she definesherself (she even worked for her father) is gone. As she says, “I don’t really feel like I exist anymore.”And Ginny says she cares about Catherine’s recovery, but does she? “Queen ofEarth” is terrifying because it is so emotionally unmoored—Catherine is acharacter with little reason to care about anything or anyone, and Perry andMoss convey the danger of that brilliantly. Moss has been a TV awards regular for her great work on “MadMen,” and killed it last year in “The One I Love” and Perry’s “Listen UpPhilip,” but this is the best work of her career. She is both shattered andterrifying, the kind of person you want to help but who you’re a little scaredto talk to. She plays Catherine as totally psychologically untethered anddrifting further away from normalcy, but she doesn’t chew the scenery in doingso, grounding Catherine’s breakdown in realism. Waterston is just as good,proving that breakthrough in “Inherent Vice” last year was no fluke. Her thirdact work here is particularly terrific, as Ginny starts to realize thatCatherine may not be exactly where Ginny was last year—she’s further down the roadof depression. Like the emotional turmoil of real heartbreak, “Queen ofEarth” refuses easy answers. It will frustrate some viewers in its lack ofconclusions, but Perry is more interested in tension than pay-off. Those hazy,uncertain days of our lives when our definitions of ourselves have to changeand we’re not even really sure who our friends are or how we feel about them makesfor remarkably ambitious territory for a filmmaker to explore. Alex Ross Perryis a remarkable filmmaker.