Electronic Dance Music, or EDM as Those Damn Kids call it,is quite the thing with the aforementioned Damn Kids these days, with theirrave and their Molly and whatever the hell else they’re up to. Its synthetictrappings notwithstanding—the “Electronic” part—EDM is dance music, just likeBig Band Swing was, just like early rock and roll was, just like disco was. Allmusics that were initially reviled, and to some extent (with the arguableexception of Big Band Swing) initially misunderstood by Hollywood. Advertisement “We Are Your Friends,” directed byMax Joseph, from a scriptby Joseph andMeaghan Oppenheimer(based on a story by producer RichardSilverman), makes a big deal out of “getting” EDM. There’s the sleek,visual-format flexible manner of the filmmaking, which mixes graphic designtropes with animation and such for some of the movie’s most engaging sequences.There’s a scene in which the protagonist, a fledgling EDM DJ named Cole Carter,explains the science of EDM as he rocks a dance floor, elaborating on gettingthe magic BPM (Beats Per Minute) count that makes the music control the dancefloor subjects, almost zombie-like in the grip of the pulsating bass. There’s alittle music-wonk name dropping, with a mentor DJ showing off a rare Buchlasynthesizer and comparing his possible protégé, unfavorably, to one JuanAtkins. Joseph recently made a documentary about the EDM productionteam/record label DFA, so he’s got some genuine knowledge under his belt. Andwhile EDM is an area of music in which my expertise doesn’t extend far pastthat of an interested dabbler/dilettante, the EDM soundtrack of this moviesounded pretty credible/hot to me. Too bad that the movie’s character dynamicsand plot are as cheesy as that of, oh, I dunno, “Don’t KnockThe Rock.” How’sthis for cliché: talented, eager, but unseasoned DJ gets taken under the wingof older, popular, but jaded and close-to-washed-up genre star, who shows himthe ropes, opens his ears, and who also happens to…wait for it…have a gorgeousgirlfriend with whom Mr. Talented And Eager gets entangled in a bad way. Yeah,that kind of plot. What’s worse is that said DJ, Cole Carter, comes completewith a contingent of San Fernando Valley tatted BroDouche pals, kind of out ofthe “Diner” handbook but even more belligerent, clueless, and sexist. And minusany charm. There’s super-brash Mason (Jonny Weston), self-proclaimed “moviestar” Ollie (Shiloh Fernandez), and Squirrel (Alex Shaffer). In the event youhaven’t guessed, Squirrel is the shy, sensitive one. As for Cole, he’s played byZac Efron, getting a tad edgierafter “Neighbors.” I had, a few months ago, come upon a bit of misinformation:I read somewhere thatZach Braffwas playing the role of the EDM DJ in thismovie. I had a great observation prepared, something along the lines of,  “Zach Braff trying to pass himself off as aguy who’s even HEARD any EDM, let alone an EDM DJ, is about as plausible asBruce Hornsbyjamming with The Melvins.” But, as I said, I was misinformed. Advertisement Efron, however, often looks nearly at sea as Braff wouldhave. Part of it has to do with his character being a bit of a cipher to beginwith. His mentor-girlfriend triangle, while entirely rote and predictable inmost of its particulars, also constitutes one of the more watchable overallportions of the movie (the stuff with Cole and his pals is very nearlyinsufferable, and the detour these career-challenged millennials take with acoarse real estate vulture in a subplot constitutes several varieties ofnadir), because the mentor DJ is played byWes Bentley, who brings a hummingundercurrent of sardonicism to his role, and the assistant/girlfriend is playedbyEmily Ratajkowskiwho is just…delightful to look upon. A scene at a Vegas DJfest wherein her character gives Cole a tab of Ecstasy, or whatever it is, andthey “roll” together made me wish I was a much younger man, a man with hair,and a tolerance for recreational drugs. I should say ALMOST made me wish, as Ihappen to be happily married to a beautiful woman who doesn’t care that I’mbald. I should also mention that aside from having Major Presence, Ratajkowskinavigates her character’s three crucial (actually only) nodes, Sweet, Sexy, andSensible, very well. But I digress. Lest the viewer come to the conclusion thatthis movie’s portrayal of the EDM drug culture is too cavalier, there does kickin near the end a Cautionary Tale Plot Point, which is arbitrary to the pointof insulting. Except it’s too late to be really insulted, because one isalready painfully aware of how unsuccessful the movie has been. And then, whenthe movie makes one more flashy attempt to get lay viewers to “grok” EDM, it’stoo late, despite the sequence being kind of not bad. While I might actually goout and buy the soundtrack album, the last thing I’m gonna say about the movieis friends shouldn’t let friends pay money to see “We Are Your Friends.”