A fair to large number of the contemporary Brazilian filmsthat make their way to United States distribution deal with social inequitieson a large and harrowing scale. The frantic, violent 2002 “City of God” is apertinent example, as are the hyper drug-busting “Elite Squad” pictures.Writer/director Anna Muyleart examines class and income difference in a much,much quieter register in “The Second Mother,” a domestic comedy-drama thatstarts off from a fairly pat premise but builds strength over the course of itscareful, empathetic, and crafty unpeeling of its characters. Advertisement Regina Calé plays Val, a spirited if frumpy middle-agedwoman who’s worked for a well-off Sao Paolo family for over a decade. In thattime she’s become practically a second mom to now-teen Fabinho (MichelJoelsas). She’s practically a co-conspirator with the kid. After his parents,haute-bohemians Barbara (the imperious bossy parent, played byKarine Teles)and Carlos (the laid-back failed artiste inheritor of a family fortune, playedbyLourenço Mutarelli) upbraid Fabinho for having a stash of pot (they’re avidsmokers themselves of course), Val assists him in retrieving it from the trash.It’s all cozy enough in its way, especially as Barbara and Carlos, the betterto assuage their liberal guilt, make something of a show of treating Val as“family.”This practice is put to the test when a figure from Val’s past calls. Val, asit happens, left the Northern part of Brazil for Sao Paolo with somethingbehind her: a child of her own, Jéssica, whom she entrusted to relatives whenshe went to work for something like a living. Jéssica (the great CamilaMárdila) is now a teen, and about to apply for university in Sao Paolo. She’sseeing her mother for the first time in a long time, and the resourceful,smart, appealing girl is put off right away by her mother’s insistence that shemove into her employer’s house with her. Given that Jéssica is attractive,resourceful, smart, and aspires to a form of independence, one can expect allmanner of sparks to fly. And they do. The tensions between servant and master are evident beforeJéssica arrives, revealed in Barbara’s barely-held in, snobbish reaction to acoffee set Val presumes to give the family as a gift. Once Jéssica arrives, sheat first knocks out her mom—“The Internet...You can do that?” Val exclaims onseeing her daughter’s web savvy in action—then confuses her with her dedicatedstudying: “The whole day with a book, it’s easy to go crazy.” Jéssica’sinsistence on taking the family at their word about her and her mom’s equalityin their eyes is a test of Barbara’s already clearly-limited patience. At thesame time, Carlos sees in Jéssica a liveliness and adventurous spirit that’snow dead in him, and this leads him to make some extreme pronouncements thatanimate some of the most awkwardly funny scenes in the film. As the movie goeson, Jéssica gets increasingly fed up with her mother’s willingness to bepatronized and humiliated by her employers. As various pushes come to shove,Jéssica’s compelled to share a secret with her mom that brings them closer evenas it illustrates what some might see as an unfortunate pattern. This isn’t groundbreaking stuff, but it’s consistentlywell-observed and engaging. The cast is terrific, and Muyleart has anunderstated assurance in her handling of film language. The depiction of a doorthat separates a large house’s kitchen from its dining room is especiallyastute throughout. As are Muyleart’s frequent uses of long, unbroken takes. Bythe end of “The Second Mother,” one feels enough at home with the characters toleave the theater with a healthy concern with where they’re going to end upnext. This isn’t the kind of film one associates with potential sequels, but Iwouldn’t mind seeing Muyleart follow up with Val and Jéssica some time Advertisement