Now thatthe 2015 summer movie derby is coming to an end this weekend,Jason Stathamcanbe named one of its biggest winners. He entered the season riding high on themammoth success of "Furious 7," the latest installment of theshockingly durable franchise in which he played the main bad guy. Later on, heappeared in the hit comedy "Spy" and scored many of its biggestlaughs by deftly sending up his tough guy screen persona to hilarious effect.Now, with the arrival of "The Transporter Refueled," the latestinstallment of the action film series from one-man production slateLuc Besson,he seems likely to receive some of the best reviews of his entire career. Ofcourse, he isn't actually in the film at all—therumor is that he turned it down after being offered a lower salary than hisprevious go-arounds and no opportunity to read the script beforehand—but once people get a load of this listless retread, theywill no doubt fall all over themselves in praising both the earlier ones andhis significant contributions to them as a way of underscoring just how uselessthis one really is. Advertisement A briefrecap for those of you who some how missed the previous entries and are worriedabout getting confused. They follow the adventures of Frank Martin, anex-Special Forces soldier who now resides in the south of France and makes aridiculously lucrative living as a top-notch getaway driver who is, naturally,the best at his job and, naturally, lives by a certain set of rules that he isalways ready to pontificate about at the drop of a hat. (There are fewer rules regarding the care and feeding of the common Mogwai, but never mind.) Since mostof his jobs seem to end up with him in the middle of high-speed andhigh-profile car chases resulting in millions of euros in property damage, onemight argue that he is more lucky than skilled but that is a debate for anothertime. As ourstory opens, Frank (now played byEd Skrein) is about to spend some time withhis recently retired father (Ray Stevenson) when he is hired by the super-sexyAnna (Loan Chabanol) to pick her and a couple of packages up outside of a bank.The "packages" turn out to be her equally glam cohorts Gina (GabriellaWright) and Qiao (Wenxia Yu) and they have just robbed a Russian gangster ofmillions of dollars. It turns out that the three, along with additional babeMaria (Tatiana Pajkovic), are prostitutes who have decided to break free ofKarasov (Radivoje Bukvic), the crime kingpin who has enslaved them since theywere children, by stealing the ill-gotten gains of him and his associatesthrough various elaborate means. To do this, they need Frank's help and toensure his compliance, they take his old man hostage. One could argue thatthere are worse things that one could do than be taken hostage by a group ofhigh-priced call girls in the south of France but as I would rather not getscolded over at Jezebel, let us table that discussion. To behonest, this storyline is not noticeably stupider in theory than any of theother "Transporter" films—the characters are asblack-and-white as can be, the narrative is little more than a laundry line toconnect the action beats and the entire enterprise is noticeably lesscomplicated than the underwear worn by the distaff members of the cast.Actually, I kind of liked those earlier installments, as I enjoy much of LucBesson's oeuvre, because as cinematic eye candy went, they were of the gourmetvariety—the action sequences movedwith a combination of grace and giddiness that meshed well with Besson'sfondness for salting the carnage with goofball humor. Besson may still have aninterest in the franchise—he produced and co-wrote thescreenplay—but his connection to the materialseems tenuous at best. The story is as dopey as ever but this  installment is mostly bereft of the sillyquirks that leavened the others—the story is so boilerplatethat one could cook ramen noodles on the screenplay, the dialogue is absolutelyterrible (if I started quoting it here, I would never stop) and with oneexception  involving our heroes makingtheir escape through an airport terminal, directorCamille Delamarrepresentsall the chases and fights in the kind of overly edited fashion that neverallows anyone to get a good look at what is happening for more than a fewseconds. Advertisement Thesecret weapon of the previous "Transporter" films, though not alwayscredited as such, was Jason Statham, who turned out to be the ideal center forthe chaos surrounding him by giving his tough guy character just the right hintof dry wit to suggest that he knew just how cuckoo the whole enterprise reallywas. Just as important, his undeniable physical presence lent an extra edge tothe fight scenes—here was the rare action starwho looked as if he actually could do many of the moves his character was askedto make. I suspect that even he could not have made much of anything out ofthis film but he almost certainly would have done more with it than Skrein, theman who would be Frank. No matter what he is asked to do—throw punches, race through the streets, trade lines ofdialogue—he is never convincing for asecond and feels less like an action hero than a placeholder for one who isforthcoming. "TheTransporter Refueled" is an unnecessary bore from start to finish, onethat even the most devoted Luc Besson fanatics (and as someone who named"Lucy" as one of the 10 best films of 2014, I admit to falling intothat category) will find difficult to defend. However, there is one part of itthat I will cherish and that is the scene in which one of the hookers—it hardly matters which one—isshot during one of the escapades and is taken back to the abandoned warehousewith a bullet still lodged inside her. Since they cannot go to the hospital,Frank and his father save her with the use of such oddball elements as sugar,vodka, perfume, tweezers and cobwebs. I have no idea if any of this actuallychecks out but the next time there is a shootout during a Halloween-themed"Vogue" fashion shoot, it could prove to be a lifesaver. Beyond that,this is a retread of the dullest order—the marquee may say"Transporter" but viewers are likely to come away from it feeling"Taken" instead.