For those who ever wondered what it would be like to see JohnCusack andJackie Chanengage in a swordfight (both of you), here is"Dragon Blade." As an added bonus, we also get to witness Chan battleAdrien Brodyin a bloody, no-holds-barred clash for an entire nation's fate.One imagines Cusack and Brody sporting gigantic grins in between takes andinternal ones during the filming of those fight scenes, even as theircharacters, respectively, must shoulder the weight of the order of the entireRoman Empire and scheme to maintain a position of power within the realm. Advertisement To these actors, this was probably as unexpected ascenario for them to be in as it is for us to watch. Here they are, though, andthey don't even get to display the obvious fun this experience must have been.Instead, they spend most of the movie moping around because there are seriousmatters with which to deal. The severity of all this at least, for the mostpart, keeps the creeping shadow of cheesiness at bay. The story is "inspired by true events," and inregards to this statement, we must take the movie's word. It's set circa 50B.C., on and around the legendary Silk Road—a multi-pathed route that extendedfrom Europe into the Middle East and the eastern coast of Africa to India,China, and Southeast Asia. Chan plays Huo An, the captain of the Silk RoadProtection Squad, which attempts to maintain the peace between the disparate 36nations that employ the route for trade and travel. Huo is a pacifist whobelieves that unity between the tribes, nations, and races that use the SilkRoad is possible. He and his comrades seem to be alone in that belief. Chan, one of the most well-known and able-bodied stars ofmartial arts movies, became famous for his willingness to perform his ownstunts and his physical dexterity. In more recent years, he has cut back on theformer inclination, but while the latter quality may have diminished a bit withage, the kind of fighting he has done in the past is still on display here(Chan is credited as the movie's action director). Huo is a defensive fighter, only responding to an attackand almost always ensuring that his response is proportionally less than theinitial attack. If Huo's enemies come at him with fists, he simply blocks themuntil a chance to knock them down arises. If they come at Huo with swords, hedisarms them but uses the dull end of the blade to defeat his foes. It's amerging of philosophy and fighting that serves the character well in the earlyparts of the movie, which abandons the philosophy and makes the fighting farmore brutal by the story's climax. The convoluted plot sees the Protection Squad framed fora robbery on the Silk Road. Huo and his men are sentenced to hard labor at WildGeese Gate, where prisoners from across China are rebuilding that great citythat once stood there. Cusack's Roman general Lucius arrives with his troops,who have exiled themselves to protect Publius (Jozef Liu Waite), the youngerson of a Roman consul, from his treacherous elder brother Tiberius (Brody,whose whispered performance could use some subtitles), who has murdered his wayinto his father's position. Huo leads the prisoners and their Roman guests torebuild the city under the unified flags of their various nations. In exchangefor the Romans' aid, Huo agrees to help Lucius find the Parthian Empire, whichcan restore Publius to his rightful place. Advertisement There are alliances and betrayals aplenty, butwriter/directorDaniel Leeseems more concerned with establishing andmaintaining an epic look and feel than in providing cohesion to the narrative(lots of wide, aerial shots of that city under and after construction). Hisscreenplay relies far too often on flashbacks to fill in plot and emotionalgaps. Those flashbacks not only interrupt the narrative but also come across asmanipulative hand-holding (along with slow-motion shots that extend beyond thefight scenes, when we expect them). It's not enough that Lee spends the secondact of the movie establishing the developing friendship between Huo and Lucius.When the chips fall, he has to insert flashes of the two men smiling fromearlier in the movie. If it didn't make an impact in the moment, it certainlyisn't going to by means of constant iteration. Much is made of Huo's optimistic personality and way ofthinking. "Make friend of foe," he says and sings. He lectures Luciuson the futility of revenge, but the movie's third act cynically piles defeatsand deaths upon Huo, until he has no option but to go against his code in theface of Tiberius' evil ways—oddly positioning the character as a potentialmartyr for beliefs he must put aside. The fight scenes, which had been playfulor focused on Huo's defensive techniques, become frantic, massive battlespunctuated by lots of oozing and spraying blood. "Dragon Blade" doesn't earn this shift, and itcomes after too many proclamations of desiring peace for it to come across asanything other than the result of narrative necessity or convenience. By themovie's end, the casting of Cusack and Brody as Chan's combative equals seemsone of its lesser oddities.