The trailer forParvez Sharma’s new film, “A Sinner inMecca,” with its pulsating music, tortured bodies, and scary news clips,depicts a sensationalism worthy of the most crass of Islamophobic films. Themovie itself starts with a chat room conversation on a homosexual website witha Saudi who just witnessed an execution of a gay man. Next, Sharma performs astylistic ablution dripping with blood, which seems far more melodramatic thandramatic. The rest of the film, however, calms down as his quiet, soft narrationleads us through his performance (with emphasis on “performance”) of theIslamic pilgrimage, the Hajj. He seeks not to condemn Islam as much as he seeksto dig beneath the perceived politics, patriarchy and primitive behaviors tofind it. It is a well-intentioned filmthat buries its affectionate heart in disjointed, unnecessary, forced banter. Advertisement Sharma distracts fromwhat could have been a powerfully sentimental film by positioning hisnarrative in line with modern self-proclaimed Islamic reformers. Asra Nomani’sbook “Standing Alone in Mecca” recounts her own pilgrimage, using the samenarrative of the victimized sinning reformer who does not fit among the savagemasses as well as she does among inclusive White culture. Here, Sharma shows the Muslims as namelessmessy people crushing him during prayer, people from whom he fears for hislife, while his White husband in the United States is a civilized concertpianist. Ayaan Hirsi Ali, far more rabid in her hatred of Islam and Muslims,calls for a violent overhaul of Islam to make it as secular European as ispossible. I would wish that if people were going to call for innovativereformations on Islam, that they would at least be innovative. Such authors seem to resort to sweeping vilification ofSaudi Arabia with the usual tropes: public executions and rigid religiositycoupled with capitalist extravagance. They claim—as do most hypocritical Fox News talking heads as well as bottomfeeding liberals of theBill Maher, Sam Harris, Richard Dawkins variety—thatthe soul of Islam is the dark Wahhabi menace of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia(KSA). It is true that the KSA approach to Islam dominates theArabian Peninsula and has oil-profit funded tentacles across the globe. But,Sharma runs into a serious contradiction when he asserts that the main mosque in Mecca, run by the same Saudis, is theonly mosque in the world where women and men are equals, side by side. Apparently, despite all therightly-criticized problems of Wahhabi Islam (executing gays, demolishingsacred sites to build shopping malls, prohibiting modern cultures), theysomehow lead the world in progressive gender dynamics? The next problem here is the claim that he has to secretlyfilm his whole adventure on his cell phone because of a ban on cameras. SpikeLee hired a Muslim crew to shoot footage in Mecca for “Malcolm X” (1992).Anisa Mehdi gave us a full film about the Hajj in National Geographic “InsideMecca” (2003), which itself had older National Geographic footage from the1970s. On this note, Haifaa al-Mansour’s stories of guerilla filmmaking her“Wadjda” (2013) in KSA are far more interesting because she had a whole crewand was a female; Sharma, in contrast, is an inconspicuous man in a sea ofidentically dressed pilgrims holding a single phone. Anyone who has been on thepilgrimage comes back speaking of the plethora of camera phones. I went on thepilgrimage in 1999 and a man told me of his experience circumambulating thesacred Ka’ba while listening to the poetry of Muhammad Iqbal from hisWalkman. People today who should beworshiping are often capturing selfies, calling relatives, or taking photos.Despite signs warning against camera usage, there is plenty of camera usage.Despite Sharma’s claims, there is no controversy here. For proof, take a momentright now to google “Hajj Selfie.” Advertisement My true frustration about Sharma’s film is that beneath thediversions, it contains the material for what could have been something ascontroversial, powerful, and tender as he seemed to wish. After the film’ssensationalist beginning, he marries his husband. Writing as somewhat of apracticing Muslim preacher, frequently called to officiate weddings, I am notable to textually justify gay marriage. But, that stance does not grant me thefreedom to wash my hands of something that is an existentially profound matterto some of my students. As I pourthrough scripture, scholarly discourse, and contemporary secular writings, Ikeep looking for serious answers to these serious questions. His previous film, “A Jihad for Love” (2008)—taking us into the lives of LGBTQI Muslims— touches on this need, whileemphasizing the humanity of its subjects as they struggle with belief andculture. In other words, those whocasually write off Marriage Equality as a blasphemy also ignore something thatis central to a gay man or woman without providing a reasonablealternative. In Sharma’s current film,however, the result of his gay marriage seems to be that he has a travel buddy.His solution is a rehash of his solution in “A Jihad for Love”: the Sufis.Aside from the repetition (again, a lack of innovation), the Sufis themselves,whether in their Tariqah networks or in less-structured communities are oftenas rigidly dogmatic as their Wahhabi counterparts. The former might seem morecommunal compared to the capitalism of the latter. Deeper than all of that, however, is the story of Sharma andhis late mother. As Sharma reads theircorrespondences, preserved on fragile pieces of parchment, as he walks throughthe South Asian streets she walked, as he meets her old friends and neighbors,the manufactured drama of his pilgrimage vanishes and we find rudiments of afilm that is as caring and tender as his voice. In it are the fixings of a story that any viewer—gay or straight,Islamophobe or homophobe—could relate to: he searches for his own validationthrough his search through her memory. Iwould hope that he revisits this story in the future, and that he lets thewithered call for Islamic reform remain on hold until something novel comesalong.