Anyone who’s worked a soul-draining cubicle desk job hasquestioned whether or not everyone in the office is truly human. Corporatedrones who look like zombies or bosses who seem as heartless as vampires—it’s aripe setting for a horror-comedy in the vein of “Shaun of the Dead” or itsnumerous imitators. Call this one “Bram Stoker’s The Office,” or “George A.Romero’s Office Space.” “Bloodsucking Bastards” doesn’t quite hit all of themarks it needed to in order to wholeheartedly recommend, but it is oftensurprisingly clever and funnier than most horror-comedies of the last twodecades. After people likePeter JacksonandEdgar Wrighthelped define thegenre, too many filmmakers thought it was easy to make films like “Dead-Alive”and “Shaun,” resulting in waves of garbage. I’m pleased to report that“Bloodsucking Bastards” often enough rises above those bloody waves. Advertisement Evan (Fran Kranz) is having a bad day. His girlfriend Amanda(Emma Fitzpatrick) said “I love you” last night and Evan, in a moment of panic,just responded “Nooooooooo.” As Amanda shoots him icy stares, Evan’s boss Ted(Joel Murray) passes him over for a promotion to Sales Manager, a job the hardworker assumed would be his someday. Instead, fearing that their little companywould go under, Ted brought in a corporate shark, the slimy Max (Pedro Pascal),who happens to be an old rival of Evan’s. Meanwhile, the “workers” of thistelemarketing outpost in the corporate desert seem to do little more all daythan play video games, search for internet porn and avoid actual responsibilityat all costs. Their slacker leader is wiseguy Tim (Joey Kern), while the shyZabeth (Yvette Yates) just hopes her crush Evan will give her some attentionnow that his relationship has collapsed. Shortly after Max’s arrival, things start getting weird. Anew hire goes missing after taking the garbage out; a few more workers go tothe basement and come back, well, different. The shy Zabeth returns a sexuallyaggressive young woman while other employees come back looking drained of life.Anyone who’s seen a horror movie knows there’s something malevolent on theedges of “Bloodsucking Bastards,” and it’s probably a safe bet that the new guyknows a thing or two about it. Before you know it, Evan and Tim are fightingfor their lives against the undead. Director Brian James O’Connell doesn’t overplay his setting,never quite falling back on the “soul-sucking job” aspects of his set-up in away that could have easily become winkingly annoying. “Bloodsucking Bastards”works as well as it does by delicately balancing the two halves of its hybridhorror-comedy genre. In fact, it gets funnier as the chaos increases, offeringup nice little witty asides such as when Evan grabs a mug to throw at an enemyand is surprised it says Harvard on it because no one who went to Harvardshould work at their company. And the low-budget production does a solid job ofimplying more than showing when it comes to action and gore. We see characterssplattered in blood more than actual action. Advertisement About that budget, I’m forgiving of DIY productions thatwork without much of a bottom line, but there are some basic film techniquesthat still need to be considered, and don’t cost a dime. There’s no reason for“Bloodsucking Bastards” to be as visually flat as it is, especially in thefirst act. Heads are cut off, and angles don’t seem to have been considered.It’s a byproduct of camerawork that seems designed merely to capture what’sbeing said than to have an artistic intent of its own. Turn up the lights a bit,frame the shot better, offer up some style, and “Bloodsucking Bastards” wouldhave been a much better film. I also wish “Bastards” had really gone off thedeep end in the final act. As is, it verges on the lunacy of a film like“Dead-Alive,” and other obvious inspirations, but never quite pushes the pedalto the floor. Instead of the great film it could have been, it’s just onethat horror fans will like and comedy fans seem likely to stumble upon on cablein the near future and be surprised they’ve never heard of it. Kranz is acharming lead, proving he should get more parts like this one, and O’Connelldeserves a promotion to a bigger budget next time.