Perhaps one of the most unfortunate but inevitable reactionstoAlex Gibney’s “Steve Jobs: The Man in the Machine” would be that it’s a“takedown” of the Apple co-founder. It’s not. Surely, the film subjects Jobs’cult of personality to such severe scrutiny that it goes a long way towarddismantling it. But that’s part of a complex portrait that gives as much weightto Jobs’ world-changing talents as to his personal flaws. In contrast to most of Gibney’s documentaries, which aretold in a standard third-person style, usually without narration, this one hasa more personal tone from the outset, as a way of recognizing and probing thereality that, more than any other figure, Jobs put the “personal” in personalcomputer and the many, increasingly intimate devices descended from it. As oneinterviewee puts it, he created machines that “felt like an extension of theself.” Advertisement Charting his own relationship to Jobs and his creations viaoccasional voice-over, Gibney starts off by confessing his own mystification atthe worldwide outpouring of grief that greeted Jobs’ death of cancer inOctober 2011. He had seen such emotional reaction to the untimely demises ofMartin Luther King, Jr. andJohn Lennon, the filmmaker says, but Jobs was not aheroic civil rights activist or a great artist. What was the meaning that heheld for so many people, and was that adulation justified or misplaced? This premise serves as a springboard for a chronicle ofJobs’ life and career that proceeds in more of a thematic than a chronologicalfashion, and that includes plenty of material from interviews that Jobs gaveover the years. By the subject’s own account, he got interested in computers asa teenager and, by virtue of living in northern California, gained access tocompanies like Hewlett-Packard and Atari, where he was able to meet like-mindedyoung people and deepen his fascination with professional experience. But even here, there were signs that behind his energetic,idealistic exterior, Jobs the man could be “ruthless, deceitful and cruel,” touse Gibney’s words. In one telling incident, Jobs shafted his future Appleco-founder Steve Wozniak by not telling him of a bonus they had earned on aproject. The amount wasn’t large and “Woz” says he would have gladly given itall to Jobs; what hurt was being cheated by his supposed friend. After charting the founding of Apple, which shrewdlypositioned itself as the David to IBM’s Goliath and embodied all of Jobs’visionary sense of the computer’s potential for changing individual lives(especially with the triumphant introduction of the Macintosh in 1984), thefilm doubles back to examine his early years as the product of the counter-cultureof northern California in the 1960s and ‘70s, a seeker who went off to Indialooking for (but not finding) a guru and later embracing Zen Buddhism, whichhad a significant impact on his minimalist aesthetic sense. Advertisement Too bad the aesthetic purpose didn’t entail apersonal-ethics component. The long-haired, unwashed, Bob Dylan-worshippingearly Jobs may have looked like a groovy guy, but he behaved like a privilegedass. After lengthy denials that he fathered a child by girlfriend ChrisannBrennan were disproved by DNA tests, he begrudged having to pay $500 a month inchild support when he was worth $200 million. Gibney made his film without the cooperation of Jobs’ wifeand their children or Apple, and thus his account doesn’t have either theauthorized angle or wealth of insider-ish detail of Walter Isaacson’s capaciousbiography, which, among other differences, puts a greater emphasis on Jobs’feelings as an adopted child. But the film and the book don’t reach dissimilarconclusions, and Gibney’s account has the cinematic virtue of including somevery emotional interview material that couldn’t be equaled by the printed page.(We’ll soon be able to see how the written and documentary-film versionscompare to the dramatized take offered in theDanny Boyle’s upcoming biopic,starringMichael Fassbenderas Jobs.) Naturally, Jobs’ life contained more than one act, and ifGibney gives relatively short shrift to the second, in which Jobs, forced outof Apple in 1985, co-founded NeXT and helped revolutionize computer animationin backing Pixar, the filmmaker aptly puts the emphasis on the third, when Jobsreturns to the near-bankrupt Apple in 1997 and commences the era that will bebring the world the iPhone, iPod and iPod and transform the company into the world’swealthiest. It was in this era that Jobs sealed his place as the face ofApple as he made a habit of dazzling the press with dramatic announcements ofnew products that had often had the dazzling force of a new Beatles album’sunveiling. More than one interviewee comments that Jobs’ real genius was as astoryteller, one whose skills at shaping narratives (including foreseeing thenext developments beyond the current one) included crafting a persona forhimself as a beneficent technological wizard. There was obviously some truth to that, but it alsocontained a large measure of the facile wish-fulfillment and eyewash common toall effective advertising. And behind the wizard’s screen, there was much thatlooks highly unflattering in Gibney’s telling, including Apple’s exploitationof low-paid Chinese workers, the off-shoring of company assets to avoid U.S.taxes, and the backdating of stock transactions, a sleazy episode in which oneof Jobs’ most valuable lieutenants was thrown under the bus to save him. AdvertisementUltimately, Gibney is right to return the film’s focus tohimself and the viewer, for we–all of us iPhone users and lovers–are thereal source of Jobs’ and Apple’s power and fascination. If the film finallycomes off as somewhat less accomplished than his “Enron,” “Taxi to the DarkSide” or the recent and somewhat similar “Going Clear,” that’s perhaps becauseit’s easier to draw a bead on the bad guys at the center of those films than oncomplex, elusive and strangely paradoxical characters like Steve Jobs–orourselves.