How far do you stretch the definition of acceptance of other’sbeliefs and free speech? We all like to think that we would allow alldifferences of opinion, personality, and character to stand, proudly quotingthe First Amendment as we watch Neo-Nazis march down Main Street. Really thinkabout it though. What if your neighbor patrolled the perimeter of his propertywith a loaded shotgun? What if he came to city council meetings and verballyharassed people to such a degree that nothing was out of bounds, includingmocking the murder of a council member’s daughter? What if he preached hate andintolerance, and threatened to turn your neighborhood into one of thefrontlines for the battle for White Power? Would you really live and let live? Advertisement These were the questions faced by the two dozen (literally,Population 24) residents of Leith, North Dakota, and deftly chronicled inMichael BeachNichols andChristopher K. Walker’s unsettling and downrightdepressing “Welcome to Leith.” When Craig Cobb became the 25th resident of Leith, it became a national story. At first, no one really noticedthe grizzled old man who started buying up empty lots in an area of the countrydescribed as “B-roll for The Walking Dead.”Then Cobb made his presence known, announcing to the other members of the WhitePower Movement—for which he had been an outspoken leader—that he was basicallytaking over Leith. He invited people who believed as he did to move toLeith, hoping to turn the city into a compound for hisorganization, dominating votes on the city council and building monuments to his movement. When Cobb’s allies started buying the lots from him, and onenotable skinhead and his wife even moved in, the locals started to panic. Nichols and Walker are careful to allow Cobb’s words andactions to demonize him more than their filmmaking. It would have been easy tosensationalize this story—using true crime documentary camera techniques toreally turn up the heat on Cobb’s rhetoric. Instead, they merely spent as muchtime with the aggravator as possible, watching him torment people at citycouncil meetings and swear at his neighbors. They carefully avoid making “Welcometo Leith” about what Cobb believes in, focusing on how those beliefs impact acommunity more than the hatred and vitriol within them. To that end, theysurprisingly avoid much conversation with the only minority in Leith, whohappens to be the man who sold Cobb the property in the first place. Otherfilmmakers would have madethatthestory of “Welcome to Leith.” It’s easy to make a documentary about hatefulpeople. It’s harder to focus on the impact of hateful people on those around them. To that end, the creators of “Leith” spend anequal amount of time with Cobb and his cohorts as they do the residents ofLeith, resulting in a notable balance in this portrait of a community. Again,being a strong proponent of free speech, I would never deny Cobb his right tobelieve what he does, and I find outspoken people like him less terrifying mostof the time than those who hide their disgusting beliefs. At least we knowwhere Cobb is and what he thinks. But Nichols and Walker raise fascinatingquestions about just how much disagreement and hatred we’re willing to acceptfrom our neighbors, and they do so without much flair or over-direction. Theyprovide what we hope to get from films about small communities—sketch it insuch a way that the local story becomes one in which we can see universalissues. What happened in Leith could happen in hundreds of small towns acrossthe country, and, in many ways, is happening in major ones too, as hatefulpeople move in next to those they hate. As the world gets more crowded andintolerance shows no signs of dissipating, what we will do when we see a bit ofthe drama in Leith in our own cities? Or maybe it's too late to even ask that question. Advertisement