"ComingHome" (not to be mistaken in any way for the 1978 Jane Fonda-Jon VoightVietnam-era drama of the same name) marks the eighth collaboration betweenacclaimed directorZhang Yimouand the celebrated actressGong Li. It is apartnership that has run the cinematic gamut from groundbreaking melodramaslike "Ju Dou" and "Raise the Red Lantern" to the lavishspectacle of "Curse of the Golden Flower," and has been comparedin many circles to the legendary teaming of Josef von Sternberg and MarleneDietrich. Because this new film is a smaller and simpler production than manyof their previous creations, there is the distinct possibility that it may windup going down as one of their more minor works. That would be a mistake becausewhat this film may lack in terms of visual flamboyance, it more than makes upfor in telling its simple and direct story with a raw, emotional power thatdoesn't need lavish spectacle in order to get its point across. Advertisement The filmopens in China in the early '70s, with the country still in the grips of theCultural Revolutions. Ten years earlier, college professor Lu Yanshi (ChenDaoming) was sent away to a reeducation camp, leaving behind schoolteacher wifeFeng Wanyu (Gong) and their young daughter Dandan. Now he has escaped fromprison and the authorities suspect that he may try to see them and warn them ofthe repercussions if they should try to aid him. Feng is torn but thenow-teenaged Dandan (Zhang Huiwen) has no particular allegiance to a man shebarely remembers, especially after his escape causes her to be overlooked forthe position of top dance in her propagandist ballet troupe. Lu does returnhome and during an attempted escape at a crowded train station, Dandan betraysher father to the authorities, a move that leads to Lu's recapture and Fengsuffering a vicious blow to the head while trying to help him. Threeyears later, times have changed and the now-exonerated Lu is released from alabor camp. He is met by Dandan, who hasgiven up ballet and now works in a textile factory, and discovers that Feng issuffering from a form of amnesia ofan especially cruel nature—she remembers that she has a husband and that he isto return soon but is unable to recognize him when he is standing right infront of her. With the aid of Dandan, who is bearing the crushing guilt of herinvolvement in the misfortunes of both her parents, Lu goes about trying tofigure out some way of jogging Feng's memories enough to get her to finallyrecognize him, eventually posing as a friendly piano tuner so that he can playa song that he hopes will do the trick and later read her unsent letters. Thereare some minor breakthroughs—Lu is able to engineer peace between theestranged Feng and Dandan—but not only is he unable to fully get through toher, he becomes privy to secrets that he would no doubt prefer to forget andwhich Feng can sadly still recall. Althoughhis earlier films are still as dazzling and powerful as they were when theyfirst came out, it must be said that Zhang Yimou's output over the last decadeor so could politely be called uneven—"Curse of the Golden Flower"(2006) was a visually splendid but dramatically inert mess, "A Woman, aGun and a Noodle Shop" (2009) was a remake of the Coen Brothers classic"Blood Simple" reset in feudal China that was more baffling than anythingelse and "The Flowers of War" was an attempt at big-scaleinternational filmmaking that was simply embarrassing. With "ComingHome," he has clearly shaken off the malaise of those recent efforts andhis work here is some of the best stuff he has done in a long time. The entireopening sequence, culminating in that terrible and tension-filled scene at thetrain station, is pretty much breathtaking, both in its technical skill and inthe way that he has quickly and deftly sketched in the characters and theirrelationships to each other so that the whole thing is more than just an emptytechnical exercise. Once the story shifts to Lu's efforts to reconnect withFeng, Zhang shifts into a quieter but no less impressive gear in the way thathe tells his potentially soapy story in a direct and unforced manner that earnsall of its key dramatic moments without even resorting to sloppy sentiment inorder to get a rise out of viewers. (This is all the more ironic when onerealizes that the film is based on a novel by Yan Gelling, whose work alsoinspired "The Flowers of War," a film that could not be moredifferent in terms of its approach and end result.) Advertisement Insteadof directorial flamboyance, Zhang has chosen instead to concentrate more on theperformances of the people playing the three characters who pretty much drivethe entire narrative and that gamble has been repaid with a trio of spectacularperformances. Gong Li is one of the great actresses of our time, even if herattempts to break through in Hollywood in films like "Miami Vice,""Memoirs of a Geisha" and "Hannibal Rising" did little forher career, and her work here is pretty much spellbinding in the way that shedials down her undeniable beauty and screen charisma to embody Feng and hermental difficulties without overdoing it in the manner of someone angling foran Oscar nomination. As the husband struggling to unlock his wife's past inorder for them to have a future together, Chen is equally impressive in a partthat is just as tricky as Gong's, if perhaps not as overtly dramatic. The realfind, however, is newcomer Zhang Huiwen as Dandan, whose transformation from apetulant and self-serving brat to the chastened adult who is also stillsuffering as a result of her family's shared past is so striking that one mightcall her the next Gong Li if it weren't for the fact that we already have aperfectly good one out there. "ComingHome" may drag a little bit in the middle section and some viewers notfully briefed on the details of the Cultural Revolution may yearn for a littlemore explanation of its particulars in order to provide some form of contextfor the story. As problems go, however, these are relatively minor ones andthey hardly begin to detract from the film's other achievements. Here is a filmthat offers viewers the return of a world-class director after years in the artistic wilderness, threeof the year's most stirring performances, a story that is powerful withoutrubbing your nose in it throughout and a finale that will most likely bring ahighly earned tear or two to your eyes. What else could you possible want froma movie?