Eversince it debuted at last year's Venice Film Festival, the Austrian import"Goodnight Mommy" has been building up a reputation as a horrorexercise of the highest order—the kind of film that couldsupposedly reduce even the hardiest of observers into quivering blobs of jellysquirming in their seats, partly out of what is happening on the screen andpartly out of fear of what might be coming just around the corner. As someonewho has seen more than his fair share of such films that have failed to live upto their hype over the years, I tend to approach such things with more than ahealthy dose of skepticism. In this particular case, the movie in questionhas more than lived up to its advanced word. In fact, co-filmmakers VeronikaFranz andSeverin Fialahave conjured an intelligently staged and executedcreepfest that takes one of the most universally compelling of notions—the unbreakable bond that exists between a mother and herchildren—and approaches it in such aformally and narratively bleak manner that it makes the works of fellowcountrymanMichael Hanekeseeming almost benign by comparison. Advertisement As thefilm opens, 10-year-old twin brothers Lukas and Elias (played by real-lifetwins Lukas andElias Schwarz) are playing tag in the cornfield outside theirisolated home while waiting the return of their mother (Susanne Wuest) fromfacial surgery. In theory, this should be a joyous time but from the moment shereturns home, her head completely swathed in bandages, it quickly becomesapparent that something is not quite right. Instead of the warm and cheerfulpresence that she apparently was before going away, she is now as cold andremote as the house they uncomfortably share (with its brutally sterile air andlarge supply of unnerving nooks, crannies and hallways, it seems to have beendesigned by the people who did the residence of the good doctor from "TheHuman Centipede") and demands constant quiet and no sunlight to help aidin her recovery. To make matters even more off-putting, she has begun toclearly favor Lukas over Elias, even going so far as to refuse to even speak tothe latter for unknown reasons. Despiteher wishes, the brothers are inseparable as they go about spending their timetogether doing things that range from the perfectly normal (jumping on atrampoline in the rain) to the odd (exploring a nearby tomb) to the downrighticky (collecting giant beetles in a fish tank). As time passes and theirstill-bandaged mother continues to act stranger and crueler, the boys becomeincreasingly convinced that they are dealing with someone who is pretending tobe her. Since they have no one else to turn to (their father is brieflyreferenced once but there isn't even a picture of him in the house and thelocal priest that they flee to merely brings them back home), they beginplotting amongst themselves, and when the bandages come off, so do the gloves asthey tie up the presumed interloper in her bed and begin using such items asscissors, a magnifying glass and their seemingly limitless capacity for cruelinvention in the hopes of getting the answers to their questions about who sheis and where their real mom might be. A filmlike "Goodnight Mommy" is extraordinarily difficult to pull off andnot just because of the intense emotional and physical cruelty depictedthroughout. For something like this to work, there has to be a believablebalance to the narrative for at least most of its running time—we have to understand why the kids would be convinced whileat the same time holding out the possibility that they are misunderstanding thesituation and that the woman they are torturing really is their mother afterall. The screenplay that Franz and Fiala have come up with is fairly ingeniousin the way that it toys with audience allegiances by presenting them with ascenario in which neither party is acting logically by any means. Yes,"Mom" comes across as cruel and withholding and it sure seems oddthat no one seems to have accompanied her to the hospital or cared for the boyswhile she was away. On the other hand, the two kids seem just a little tooaggressive in their retaliations for comfort. As a result, even as the filmbegins to head towards its shocking finale, most viewers will still find itdifficult to decide who, if anyone, they should be rooting for. Advertisement And yet,while the screenplay is a marvel of construction (one that is constantlyflipping the page on viewers while still maintaining a certain internal logic),it is only one of the reasons why it works as well as it does. Making theirdebuts as feature directors, Franz and Fiala demonstrate a genuine gift forfilmmaking—they know how to milk a scenefor maximum tension without resorting to cheap scares, how to create quietermoments that allow the characters to become more than figures designed solelyto be manipulated by the plot and how to mine the increasingly grim happeningsfor a certain amount of dark humor. (There is one great scene in which the boysattempt to distract visiting Red Cross solicitors in the kitchen in hopes thatthey don't investigate the odd noises upstairs coming from "thedog.") The three central performances from Wuest and the Schwarz brothersare all excellent in the way that they make the shift from malevolence tosympathy and back again without it ever coming across as forced. Adding to theunnerving quality of the film as a whole is the gorgeously haunting 35mmcinematography by Martin Gschlacht and the quietly unnerving sound design thatsuffuses even the most ordinary of moments (admittedly a rare sight here) witha sense of dread and uncertainty. "GoodnightMommy" is a viciously effective horror film but it is clearly not one forall tastes—some viewers may find it alittle too chilly and remote for its own good and those who are put off by thesight of ugly bugs or adorable animals that meet sad ends may find certainparts of it to be unforgivable. However, those with stronger constitutions willfind it to be an excursion to the cinematic dark side that is a million timesremoved from such recent genre gibberish as "Unfriended" or "TheGallows." Are you that type of viewer? Here is a question. I mentionedMichael Haneke earlier in this review—did you see and enjoy (perhapsnot the right word) both versions of his highly controversial "FunnyGames"? If so, this should be right up your alley. If not—well, you have been warned.