“Sicario” opens with two indicators of a violent world, one a discovery and one an explosion, both setting the stage for the satisfying thriller that follows.This is a universe in which evidence of evil exists in plain sight,hiding in the walls of a house in suburban America. And it is a world in whichviolence can erupt in the blink of an eye, taking lives and shattering others.At times, “Sicario” is a deeply satisfying, intense examination of a war withno rules of engagement, driven by a spectacular performance by     Benicio Del Toro    and typically mesmerizing cinematography from     Roger Deakins    . At other times, especiallyin its middle act, “Sicario” can be frustratingly self-indulgent, filled withoverhead helicopter shots of the Mexican border and a thumping, pretentiousscore. It’s a film that lacks the urgency of the really great thrillers, butexists in that rarefied air of refined production values on every level and aflawless ensemble. That it falls short of greatness could be considered adisappointment, but there’s still much to like here.Advertisement That opening scene features FBI Agent Kate Macy (EmilyBlunt) trying to find a kidnap victim in an Arizona home. She literally barrelsthrough the wall in her truck, and just takes down a target as he unloads ashotgun in her direction. The shotgun blasts a hole in the wall, revealing adead body, wrapped in plastic. And this cadaver is not alone. Soon, theydiscover the home is filled with corpses, and their investigation leads to anexplosion. What is going on? What horror has crossed the border from thenotoriously lawless town of Juarez to Arizona? Macy’s fearlessness and quick wit draws the attention of hersuperiors, and she’s brought in on a meeting for an inter-agency task force.Led by a mysterious, professionally undefined (he could be CIA) man named Matt(Josh Brolin), the people behind this task force like what they hear from Kate.They bring her aboard, and Matt, Kate and the mysterious Alejandro (Benicio DelToro) head South to capture a drug trafficker and bring him back to the States forquestioning. This sequence alone justifies a look at “Sicario.” Venturing intoa part of the continent in which drug lords have become so prominent that deadbodies hang in public places as messages, the team has to act quickly. On theway back from Mexico, they get stuck in traffic at the border. Cars around themcould contain the drug trafficker’s cronies, waiting to strike. This scene isa master class in the production of tension. Deakins uses car windowsbeautifully and editor Joe Walker seamlessly cuts the action together. That themovie never tops this sequence again is where the problems arguably start. Weopen with such intensity that the lack of sizzle in the second act starts totake a toll. Part of the problem is thatTaylor Sheridan’s script doesn’treally develop a protagonist. Kate is too often an observer, an unwilling anduninformed traveler on this journey. Brolin’s Matt andDel Toro’s Alejandro areso clearly in charge of what’s happening that they’re thinking of moves severalmachinations away while Kate is unclear of not only what role she’s supposed toplay but what roles everyone has as well. I get that this sense of confusion ispart of the point. “Sicario,” at its core, is about a world in which the lackof leadership on either side of the drug war has created complete chaos. And soit makes sense that it would feature a protagonist equally confused by the lackof ground rules. However, this makes for a film that doesn’t have the emotionalpunch of the best thrillers, at least not until the final act when the tablesare turned, and we realize that we may have been focusing on the wrong story allalong. Advertisement Despite the issues I have with the narrative of “Sicario,”it’s impossible to deny the technical elements that are so far above average,andDenis Villeneuve’s skill with directing actors. He draws a great performancefrom Brolin as the kind of guy who enjoys keeping those around him uninformed.He considers intelligence as a tool to an upper hand. Del Toro has a verydifferent purpose, one that’s slowly revealed, and he’s simply magnetic here.He steals every scene he’s in. Blunt is typically excellent as well, even if itfeels like the underdrawn nature of her character is the film’s biggest flaw. By the time “Sicario” gets to its final act, and Villeneuveand Deakins approach “Zero Dark Thirty” territory through strikes under the cover of darkness with night vision goggles,it’s impossible to nitpick the screenplay. When life and death are in play,such as in that scene on the freeway, and really the entire final act, “Sicario”rises to the level I hoped it would maintain the entire time. It becomes anentire film of that opening scene—a movie of secrets and the threat of constantviolence. It’s about a world that we can’t really even comprehendwhen it comes to its lack of order and degree of atrocities. And it’s in ourbackyard.