With itscombination of potentially volatile story elements—including offbeat comedy,melodrama, undertones of suspense and an extremely fluid contemplation ofcontemporary sexual mores—“The New Girlfriend" is asort of cinematic high-wire act in which even the slightest misstep could sendthe entire thing crashing to the ground in a mess of smutty farce and mawkishsoap operatics. Not only does the film keep itself aloft for the duration, oneof its greatest pleasures is seeing how filmmakerFrancois Ozonmanages to findjust the right note for such challenging material. He transforms what mighthave been a tonal nightmare in other hands into a wildly entertaining work, one thatmanages to be simultaneously funny, touching, slightly unnerving and undeniablysexy to behold, regardless of where your predilections may lie. Advertisement The film opens with a funeral, then charts the lifelong friendship between Claire (AnaisDemoustier) and Laura (Isild Le Besco) from the moment that they first meet atthe age of seven, and become instant BFFs through first loves and firstheartbreaks to their marriages—Laura to the dashing David(Romain Duris) and Claire to Gilles (Raphael Personnaz). It seems so perfectthat one awaits the other shoe to drop, and it soon does when Lauraunexpectedly takes ill and soon dies, leaving a devastated David to raise theirinfant daughter, Lucie, alone and an equally bereft Claire to cope with herequally profound sense of loss. Since she is Lucie's godmother, Claire decidesthat the best way to deal with the tragedy is to do all that she can to helpDavid care for the girl whenever she can. One day, she goes over to their houseunannounced and when she goes in, she sees a strange woman holding the babythat turns out to be David in a wig, makeup and one of Laura's dresses. Needlessto say, Claire is more than a bit taken aback by this sight, and David is forcedto explain things. For as long as he can remember, he's had a thing aboutwearing women's clothing, though he stresses that this desire has nothing to dowith sexuality and that he is still straight. When he met and married Laura,this compulsion receded; now that she has gone, the desire has returnedfull-force. As an added side benefit, Lucie, who is too young to rememberLaura in anything but the most general of details, seems to be responding wellto this ersatz version of her. Once she comes down from the initial shock, Claireis willing to embrace this new side to David and even helps him to furtherdevelop this new side to him by dubbing this alter ego "Virginia,"showing her how to act more feminine and even taking him out into the realworld to interact with others as a woman. With aset-up like this, "The New Girlfriend" could go in any number ofnarrative directions, ranging from dark suspense (as was apparently the casewith Ruth Rendell short story's from which, according to the credits, it was"loosely adapted") to the kind of semi-transgressive, self-awaremelodrama thatPedro Almodovarbuilt his career upon. Without going into toomuch detail so as not to spoil anything, the film goes off in a number ofdirections that nevertheless manage to flow together with surprising grace.There is a lot of humor to be had in the story, and for the most part, itmanages to eschew the usual broad hijinks that occur when a man turns updressed as a woman; at one point, David is forcedto make a quick change when his former mother-in-law arrives unexpectedly butforgets to remove his lipstick.At the same time, there is a serious side tothe story as Claire finds herself keeping the existence of Virginia a secretfrom the more straight-laced Gilles and David dealing with his own identityissues. Meanwhile, conventional notions of gender and sexuality are constantlybeing reexamined and revised throughout—beyond the obvious involvingDavid/Virginia, Claire also goes through a change as well as she assumes a moremasculine presence, both when she and Virginia are out in public together, andin bed with Gilles. Advertisement Ozon's screenplay is clever andintriguing throughout, while still maintaining a clear through line for viewersto follow even when things start getting really complicated. The performancesare strong across the board—Duris finds the humor andpathos in his character without ever becoming a cartoon, Demoustier (who inmany ways has the trickier role when you think about it) is wonderful in the waythat she helps to navigate viewers through the increasingly tricky emotionaland sexual waters and, as the more conservative-leaning husband, Personnazbrings life and personality to a character that could have easily become acaricature. All the technical aspects are top-notch as well, and the film evenmanages to pull off the difficult trick of putting a man in a dress and notmaking it look like an oldMilton Berleroutine—Durismay not be 100% convincing as a woman but he certainly comes closer to thatmark than most on-screen cross-dressing attempts manage to achieve. Althoughhis name may not be that well-known outside of auteurist circles, Francois Ozonis one of the most audacious filmmakers on the world cinema scene today,especially when it comes to sexually charged material. Among his efforts are the international hit "SwimmingPool", "In the House" and the teen call girl drama"Young and Innocent." Even when he isn't dealing with overtly eroticmaterial, he is always out there trying to provide audiences with something newand unexpected—his wild "8 Women" brought together eight of France's top actresses (including veteransCatherine Deneuve,Isabelle Huppert,Emmanuelle Beart,Fanny ArdantandDanielle Darrieuxand relative newcomersVirginie LedoyenandLudivine Sagnier)for a musical murder mystery—and even when he stumbles, aswas the case with 2009's "Ricky", a baffling fable about a baby bornwith a pair of wings that allow him to fly, he still goes down swinging for thefences. "The New Girlfriend" is a film that finds him at the top ofhis game, and the results will intrigue and arouse audiences in equal measure.