There’s a scene in “The Cut,” a stirring melodrama written and directed by Turkish-German filmmakerFatih Akin(“Head-On,” “The Edge of Heaven”)about survivor’s guilt and the century-old Armenian genocide, that cuts tothe film’s bleeding heart. In this sequence, Armenian refugee NazaretManoogian (an incredibleTahar Rahim) answers for a crime he initiallycommitted impulsively, but consequently used to advance his quest to reunitewith teenage daughters Arsinée and Lucinée. Nazaret is a mute, so his actions are represented and judged inthis scene through facial expressions, and body language. And because “TheCut” is openly influenced by (and an homageto) the similarly pantomime-centric silent films ofCharlie Chaplin, the scenein question concerns the desperate measures someone with a tenuous hold onsociety’s bottom-most rung will go to to correct the universe’sseemingly malignant indifference. I fixate on this scene because it’sone of the most morally challenging scenes I’ve seen at themovies this year, and one I’ll be thinking about for some time tocome. Advertisement But I’m getting ahead of myself. To set thescene: Nazaret is a blacksmith who miraculously survives a genocidal march intothe desert. In the first half of “The Cut,” we follow him as he struggles to rejoin with society as he knows it.Composer Alexander Hacke’s droning electric guitar score setsthe pace for these scenes—a dull ache that imperceptibly builds in strength astime passes. Nazaret wanders the desert, encountering some emaciated Armenians,and some Turkish collaborators, bandits, and/or persecutors. It’sa forbidding journey, but he eventually discovers that his daughters are alive,and embarks on a years-long journey to rejoin them. On his travels, Nazaret meets several sympathetic companions. Heis also profoundly affected by Chaplin’s “The Kid,” a tragicomedy that also assumes that human suffering is a universalconstant. The biggest difference between Chaplin and Akin’srespective films is obviously a matter of tone—Nazaret’s life is a seriesof jarring confrontations. Fellow refugees are habitually ostracized by Turks; they’re overworked, robbed, and sold into prostitution. Nazaret’sbehavior is therefore presented through a nebulous, amoral lens. He scorns anaffluent former patron (a Turk) when he’s temporarily allied with a group ofBedouin bandits. These bandits are indistinguishable from the ones that Nazaretsees earlier raping the mother of two sons. People are not good or bad in “TheCut”—they are subject to violent whims, andrarely given fair opportunities to defend themselves. “The Cut” can therefore be seen as a historicalcorrective. Nazaret may relate with the Tramp, but he rarely exhibitsChaplin-esque sympathies. While Akin’s film is often rather grim, the filmis infrequently humorous, like when Nazaret tries to overcome his speechimpediment by writing down the town name he’s from (Mardin),then realizes he’s communicating with an illiterateTurk. But for the most part, watching “The Cut” is a painful experience because it essentially serves to redress aheinous crime—showing how hard life in the shadow of atrocity can be forsociety’s undesirables. Advertisement So in the above-mentioned scene, Nazaret is confronted: HagobNakashian (Kevork Malikyan), an Armenian-Cuban barber who harbors Nazaretduring his temporary stay in Havana, asks Nazaret where he got the money totravel by boat to America. Nazaret replies by saying nothing, as he does inmany of the best scenes of “The Cut.” Still, while Rahim’s body language is tense, Akin showsMalikyan’s face as Hagob reacts to Nazaret’s silence with aforgiving smile. It’s a tense scene, and one that suggestsan authorial approval of Nazaret’s actions. But Akin doesn’t simplistically absolve Nazaret ofhis sins, nor does “The Cut” ultimately suggest that violence can be used to right serious wrongs.Instead, violence is shown to be a fact of life that people simply have to livewith, as we see in the film’s moving finale. Akin’shumanistic approach to his characters is refreshing because it leaves room fordoubt. His film is not, in other words, sentimental like Chaplin’scomedies, though “The Cut” is similarly empowering. Here’s a drama that tries to acknowledgeand accept characters who are shown to have some agency, but aren’talways acting out of some utilitarian ideal of charity. We are encouraged to judge Nazaret based on the harrowingcircumstances of his life and the unsettled times he lives in. So when Hagobsmiles at Nazaret, he’s not washing away Nazaret’ssins. In fact, Hagob is pointedly unaware of what Nazaret has done to earnmoney enough to travel to America. But he smiles anyway, and in that gesture,you can find the film’s complex worldview. “TheCut” is not an optimistic film, but itpresents a scenario rich enough to make you want to be optimistic. Advertisement