“Never Let Go” is the tagline on posters for this movie,based on the true story of an exceedingly ill-fated trek up the title mountain in 1996. “What The Hell Are You All Doing Up There In The FirstPlace?” might be a more apropos. The transformation of massively risky mountain-climbing, as anactivity exclusively for scientists and highly-trained explorers to anadventure-tourism endurance test for the rich and obsessive, gets taken care ofhere in a series of three title texts at the beginning of the movie, startingwith the ostensible conquest of Mount Everest by Sir Edmund Hillary’s team. Beginning with some tantalizing/troubling glimpses of the heedless and colonialist aspects of adventure tourism culture, "Everest" then gets down to business. This movie, scripted byWilliam NicholsonandSimon Beaufoyand directed, with meticulous regard for the elements and action, by Iceland-born filmmakerBaltasar Kormákur, is a detailed and realistic depiction of climbers—of various experiences—facing the worst possible conditions, at heights and climates that seem designed to shut a human body down. AdvertisementJason Clarke’s Rob Hall is an experienced climber and thehead of a company called Adventure Consulting. He’s a good-hearted bloke who’sgot a devoted team and a relatively diverse clientele. The climbers putting outbig bucks (or, in some cases, as it happens not; Hall, we learn at one point,is even more good-hearted than he appears) for a spring jaunt up Everestinclude cocky Texas businessman Beck Weathers (Josh Brolin),  good-natured workingman Doug Hansen, and verygame Yasuko Namba (Naoko Mori) a petite powerhouse who’s topped six of theso-called Seven Summits and now wants Nepal’s Everest, the highest of thebunch. The conditions at base camp are hectic and slightly tense. A starjournalist,Jon Krakauer, is part of Hall’s expedition, which has aroused theenvy of a Hall's pal Scott who’s now a rival climb organizer (playedJake Gyllenhaal,portraying the more hippie-ish side of the climbing gestalt). There arescheduling issues and various manifestations of pissiness between the teamsthat go up the mountains and prep climbing tools for their clients. Clearly,there’s a lot that can go wrong. Particularly if the weather turns bad. There’s a resemblance here to both the story and the movieadaptation of the story told in “The Perfect Storm.” The characters involvedare making a good faith effort—but good faith efforts by humans can only go sofar. “Nature always has the last word,” one character observes early on. As themovie expertly depicts freezing conditions, approaching and full-blown storms,mini-avalanches hitting at just the wrong place and just the wrong time, andmore, the movie provides an object lesson with respect to that adage. As much as "Everest" trades in a kind of authenticity, italso trucks in the most banal of disaster movie clichés; for instance, one ofthe principal characters in the trek is leaving behind a pregnant wife. Whilethis part of the story is as true as any other, the dialogue between thecharacters at the outset: “You better be back for the birth, [Full CharacterName];” “You try and stop me,” practically screeches to the audience, “Startworrying about this guy NOW.” What it all amounts to, finally, is an excruciating anddispiriting simulated recreation of excruciating and dispiriting real lifeevents. While leaving the theater, I overheard several sets of peoplediscussing the various actions some of the characters took and what they, theviewers, might have done in their stead. This occasioned some slight despairon my part. "You can’t stop what’s coming," as someone once said in another moviestarring Josh Brolin, and I rather doubt that the filmmakers’ aim in makingthis picture was to excite the vanity of its audience. The point, as far as Iunderstand it, isn’t “You could live if you did things differently than X” butrather that even the best-prepared are not really prepared. Advertisement Not that I’ve ever been a “What’s the point?” kind of personin my aesthetic enthusiasms. But in spite of the excellent technical work andthe efforts of a first-rate cast, “Everest” did not exhilarate or scare me asmuch as leave me flatly sad. A real-life footage coda to the movie suggeststhat the participants signed off on this portrayal, and in a sense it’s an aptand sensitive tribute. A good many accounts of the 1996 events have been toldin book and movie form—Krakauer’s own highly-regarded book “Into Thin Air,”Beck Weathers’ memoir, and more. I myself worked on a piece for Premieremagazine focusing on the event from the perspective of David Breashears, whomade the IMAX film “Everest” (1998) and who appears as a minor character here. I’venot read Krakauer’s book, but perhaps I should. Coming out of thismovie, the story remained upsettingly senseless to me, and an inapt one for amovie that. Despite its attempts at empathy, "Everest" often plays the cinematic thrillride card.