Documentary filmmaking has a habit of reminding us of atruth that many would like to ignore: monsters are very real. As children, we’retold by our parents that boogeymen don’t exist and that most people areinherently good. Both of these things are true, but we often convince ourselvesthat true evil is something of fiction. “Prophet’s Prey,” the latestdocumentary fromAmy Berg(“Deliver Us From Evil”), reminds us that there isunimaginable horror in this world, often perpetrated in the name of religionand under the banner of salvation. The film opens in limited release today,September 18th, before a Showtime premiere on October 10th.It is harrowing and stomach-turning. While I wish the form of the film wasn’tquite so talking-head—“then this happened”—the story is so compelling andterrifying that it’s hard to place too much cinematic flourish on top of it. Itspeaks for itself. And what it says is scarier than any horror film this year. AdvertisementSam Broweris a private detective who spent much of his lifetrying to bring the horror of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ ofLatter-day Saints to light. It’s chronicled in “Prophet’s Prey: My Seven-YearInvestigation into Warren Jeffs and the Fundamentalist Church of Latter-DaySaints,” the main basis for this film, although Berg also works heavily from JonKrakauer’s excellent “Under the Banner of Heaven” (a book you really shouldread, along with his “Into the Wild” and “Into Thin Air.”). In fact, Brower andKrakauer approached Berg with the idea to make the film, and both appearregularly in “Prophet’s Prey,” as leading experts on the saga of Warren Jeffs,his dozens of “wives,” and the damage a self-proclaimed prophet perpetrated onhundreds of people, including his own relatives. Warren Jeffs was the son of Rulon Jeffs, anotherself-proclaimed prophet and the leader of the FLDS. The film argues that as thesenior Jeffs was nearly on his deathbed, Warren worked his way into the positionof rightful heir. In 2002, he became “President and Prophet, Seer and Revelator”of the FLDS. While Rulon Jeffs may have committed unspeakable crimes himself(he may have had 75 wives and 65 children when he passed, and many of his wiveswere underage), “Prey” makes the case that the evil of the father was amplifiedin the son. Even before his father passed away, Warren was using his positionin the church to rape young girls in the name of religion. Warren Jeffs took his power a step further than hispedophilia, ruining the lives of anyone who dared challenge him. Within hisinstitution, he had the power to “re-assign” wives—as if they were cattlemoving from one barn to another—and would break up the homes of anyone whodared call into question his relationship with a higher being, one whoregularly spoke through him. His almighty oversight of a compound of hisfollowers made him invincible, until the government took notice. After a woman called the police to report that she wasmarried and had given birth at the age of 15, they raided the largest compoundof the FLDS, where they suspected Jeffs might be holed up, and took hundreds of childreninto custody. The case quickly fell apart, but Jeffs was still on their radar. Theaccusations started piling up and really didn’t stop. Even relatives of Jeffs, includinghis nephew, accused him of sexual assault. He was marrying 14-year-old girlsover and over again, telling them it was the prophet’s will. An arrest warrantwas issued for rape in 2006, and Jeffs rose to #2 on the Most Wanted list, rightnext to Osama Bin Laden. He was arrested in 2006, and went totrial, one in which he did little more than take the 5thamendment.He is serving in life in prison, but still exerts control over his church. Advertisement Clearly, there’s a terrifying story to be told here aboutunchecked, unregulated power, and the horror that happens when it’s given toa madman. Berg is a very technically proficient director, and the film movesalong at a nice clip, aided by a score byNick CaveandWarren Ellis. Therewere times where it felt a bit too routine to me, a problem in true crimedocumentary filmmaking in that it’s really the subject matter and not thefilmmaking that often gets the most critical attention. This is a story that shouldbe heard, even if it turns the stomach, and Berg gets out of the way of it forthe most part, letting Jeffs’ own relatives and those directly impacted by hisreign of terror do the talking. At one point, I wished that there were morefemale interview subjects (although one who escaped the nightmare of FLDS isriveting) and then I realized that Berg and her team probably couldn’t findmany women directly impacted by FLDS who were willing to talk. Hopefully, “Prophet’sPrey” will give those women the power to escape and make their voices heard.