Nicolas Cageis often accused of taking parts that don’tchallenge his undeniable range, especially in recent years as the "paycheck parts" have piled up. His ‘10s outputof films like “Rage,” “Outcast,” “Stolen,” “The Frozen Ground” and “Left Behind” makethis argument of creative coasting harder to dismiss (and almost more painfulconsidering Cage delivered one of his career-best turns in the middle of thisgarbage onslaught with “Joe”). Looking over Cage’s resume, I considered thefollowing phrase carefully: “Pay the Ghost,” out in very limited release today,is a new low for Nicolas Cage. Just when you thought he couldn’t get any more apatheticabout a role, he pops up in this lazy, boring retread of “Insidious” that evenhis most diehard fans should ignore. Advertisement Based on a novella byTim Lebbon, “Pay the Ghost” stars Cageas Mike Lawford, an English teacher who drops references to Lovecraft and JohannWolfgang von Goethe just so you get the impression that Dan Kay’s screenplaycomes with great literary aspirations. (Spoiler: It does not.) Lawford is married to Kristen (SarahWayne Callies), and the two have a child named Charlie (Jack Fulton). Ofcourse, Mike is a distant dad, not around enough as he tries to earn tenure atthe university where he teaches. On Halloween, Lawford finally gets tenure, and comes home to celebrate with his family. He evenconvinces his wife to let him take Charlie to a late-night Halloween parade (dothose things really happen in NYC in 2015?) Charlie, who has been having odd visionsof late, asks dad if they “can pay theghost,” and abruptly disappears. A year later, Mike and Kristen have been torn apart by thedisappearance of their son, and start to have supernatural visions, includinghearing a child screaming and seeing Charlie on a bus. Is Charlie trying tocommunicate to them from the other side? With a laughably small amount ofresearch, Mike notices that while children who go missing are often found,those who disappear on All Hallow’s Eve rarely come home again. Someone, orsomething, is abducting kids on October 31st, and many of theguardians of the abductees tell the same story of the titular phrase being saidjust before they disappeared. Who is the ghost that must be paid? What must heor she be paid with? Does this have something to do with Cage’s notorious IRSproblems? It’s amazing how long “Pay the Ghost” drags itself through a feature-length running time with almost nothing to speak of in terms of plot.Charlie disappears, and dad looks for him. The set-up is a slog, as we knowthere’s no movie without dad making contact with his son again, and there’sabsolutely no style or character to get us over the lack of narrative suspense.Cage doesn’t even give it his wide-eyed all; he’s more fun in “Left Behind.”Perhaps presuming that directorUli Edelwould actually dramatically ground “Pay the Ghost”in something relatable, Cage actually plays it straight, which eliminates anyB-movie fun that could even be had with this misstep. If you’re going to do alackluster horror movie just for the money, at least try and have some fun withit. Advertisement Instead, “Pay the Ghost” does nothing that we haven’t seendone more entertainingly and incisively in other films. It literally has twocharacters at the 70-minute mark explain the entire narrative—where Charlie is,how to save him, why he was taken, etc.—in back-to-back conversations. It isthe apex of lazy screenwriting. At one point, Lawford notes to his class that Washington Irving established the tone of his infamous piece "Sleepy Hollow" with just its name. So does “Pay the Ghost.” It’s to Pay the Bills.