The earlyreviews of "Misunderstood," the third directorial effort fromlive-wire Renaissance womanAsia Argento, have described it as being anautobiographical tale. That is correct to a certain point—there are any numberof parallels between what is known about her life and what she has put up onthe screen. However, instead of simply creating the big-screen equivalent of adiary, which is what it might have become in lesser hands, she has transformedher experiences into a narrative that can be understood and appreciated byaudiences who come into the film without any great working knowledge of herpersonal story. The result is an occasionally strange, occasionally brutal andoccasionally lovely work that goes up on the shelf with "The Ocean ofHelena Lee" and "Girlhood" as one of the more impressivecoming-of-age tales of recent times. Advertisement Set in1984, the film focuses on Aria (Giulia Salerno), a nine-year-old Italian girlwho is the daughter of a famous movie star (Gabriel Garko) and a celebratedconcert pianist (Charlotte Gainsbourg). From a glance, it sounds like theperfect life but things are far from that for Aria. At school, she iswhip-smart but the other kids and teachers, perhaps resentful of her parentage,treat her like a freak and her only friend is classmate Angelica (Alice Pea),with whom she sneaks the occasional cigarette and indulges in Barbie doll playthat goes way beyond the suggested age limit on the box. As for her home life,we get an early idea of how that goes at a supremely tense family dinnerinvolving her, her parents and her stepsisters—Dad's monstrous daughterLucrezia (Carolina Poccioni) and Mom's somewhat nicer daughter Donatina (AnnaLou Castoldi)—which quickly devolves into a brutal fight in which her parentsviciously tear into each other while the stepsisters side with their respectiveparents and leave Aria caught in the middle. Notsurprisingly, Aria's father walks out soon after this, taking Lucrezia withher, but life does not get noticeably better for Aria. Her mother makes vaguepromises that they will be going on a Caribbean cruise soon but when the timecomes, she actually goes with one of the many sleazy boyfriends that sheacquires and Aria is shipped off to her dad's place, where Lucrezia lives likea queen and she is essentially sequestered to the room where all the otherunwanted junk accumulates. Along the way, Aria acquires a black cat named Dacand they eventually become inseparable. Dad is not quite as thrilled with thisdevelopment as he is hyper-superstitious and eventually sends her packing backto her mother, hurling plenty of invective for the trip back. This begins a pattern in which she is shuttledbetween the two homes, where she is looked upon mostly as an inconvenience bytwo raging egomaniacs and briefly tolerated until one sends her packing on awhim whenever she gets in their way. At one point, both of them give her theboot at the same time and she winds up spending the night on the street in whatis paradoxically one of her happiest moments. Things are equally uneasy atschool when Angelica begins hanging out with one of the popular mean girls andthe dreamy guy she is crushing on refuses to give her the time of day, making for plotthreads that come together brutally during a scene where Aria throws a party ather dad's vacant home that quickly goes awry. Advertisement As anactress, Asia Argento is one of those commanding personalities whose merepresence brings a certain jolt of electricity to any film smart enough toinclude her—with her fierce attitude, keen intelligence and feral sensuality,she can transform even the most mundane material into a kind of cinematic daredevil act that you cannot tear your eyes away from as long as she is on thescreen. As a filmmaker, she was able to maintain many of those qualities in herfirst two directorial efforts, the overtly autobiographical "ScarletDiva" (2000), in which she played a self-destructive young actress, and"The Heart is Deceitful Above All Things" (2004), a disturbingportrait of the most nightmarish childhood imaginable (one that turned out tobe imagined when its source, the allegedly autobiographical writings of JTLeroy, turned out to be pure fiction—both the work and the author)."Misunderstood" marks her return to the director's chair after an eleven-year absence and while she has maintained many of those qualities—as manyas possible when dealing with a story about a nine-year-old girl—she has alsoadded a number of new arrows to her directorial quiver that are undeniablyappealing. While thestory is openly inspired by her own life ("Aria" is technicallyArgento's actual first name) and is certainly personal to her in any number ofways (right down to casting her own daughter, Castoldi, as Donatina), she has worked here to make this film more accessible than her previous efforts. While those projects, as excellent as they were, made for some heavylifting with their relentlessly gloomy tones, Argento manages to find a certaindegree of dark humor amidst the otherwise grim proceedings that helps to keepit mostly free of the mawkish self-pity that it always seems on the verge ofteetering into. Visually, it is also a marvel as ace cinematographerNicola Pecorinicreates an offbeat look that pays tribute to the super-stylish horror epicsfrom Argento's father, Dario. Argento also gets a number of strong performancesfrom her cast—Salerno is a real find as young Aria, and Poccioni and Gainsbourg(playing the role that Argento herself might have taken once upon a time) areboth hilarious and horrifying as two people who probably never should have beenallowed to become parents. "Misunderstood"only steps wrong during its final moments when Aria directly addresses theaudience and explains "I tell you all this not to make you feel sorry forme, but just so you will understand me better and maybe be a little bitnicer." Simply put, this bit doesn't work because it does cause the filmto slip into the mawkishness that it had so deftly avoided for the rest of itsrunning time. It's also a clumsy attempt to sell us on acharacter that most of us will already adore by then. Yes, Aria is having arough time but as we see her navigate the minefield of her pre-adolescence,we can already see the strong and resilient woman that she is sure to become—the kind of woman who will one day look back at those past miseries with acertain amount of humor and self-awareness, and maybe even turn those heartaches into a filmnot unlike this one. Advertisement