Although handsomely crafted, well-acted and made withtransparently noble intentions,Roland Emmerich’s “Stonewall” is a movie thatseems destined to please almost no one. Its melodramatic plot and stereotypical characters presumably were employed with the hope of drawing a mainstreamaudience, which, nonetheless, is likely to find both either off-putting orrisible. In so doing, the film misses the chance to offer an original artisticor sociopolitical take on the 1969 riots that sparked the U.S. gay rightsmovement. Advertisement Watching it, you have to wonder if someone during themovie’s story conferences didn’t say, “Hey, do we really have to focus thenarrative on an impossibly good-looking Midwestern farm boy who comes to NewYork and gets swept up in the Greenwich Village gay scene? Wasn’t that done ina film called ‘Stonewall’ 20 years ago?” Indeed it was, and two decades on, the idea is well past itsexpiration date. Here, the kid’s name is Danny (Jeremy Irvine), and throughoutthe film we get flashbacks to the troubles back home in Indiana that drove himto New York. His dad (David Cubitt) is a stern, crew-cut high school coach whosuspects his son of “deviant” tendencies, even though Danny plays football andappears straight as an arrow. Caught hooking up with the hunky guy (KarlGlusman) he’s in love with, the high school senior becomes a laughingstock atschool and a pariah at home. With a mom (Veronika Veradskaya) who can donothing but wring her hands and a little sister (Joey King) who adores him nomatter what, Danny realizes he’s in an impossible situation, so he hops aGreyhound to the Big Apple. First stop once he’s there is the gay nucleus of GreenwichVillage, which includes the scuzzy, Mafia-run Stonewall Inn, the only gay barin the city that allows dancing. Here it must be noted that the film’s one areaof unqualified triumph lies in the collaboration of production designer MichèleLaliberté and cinematographerMarkus Förderer. Built on a soundstage inMontreal, the film’s sets—especially the gargantuan Sheridan Squarere-creation—are atmospheric, impeccably executed and contribute greatly tothe movie’s overall visual panache. Since he arrives in New York bearing a scholarship toColumbia University, Danny, in addition to looking like an Abercrombie &Fitch model, is a veritable icon of white privilege next to the motley crew ofgay street kids he falls in with. These include a sassy young transvestite namedRay (Jonny Beauchamp), who serves as the newcomer’s Virgil while also, ofcourse, developing an unrequited crush on him. As the film reminds us at every turn, these were hard timesfor members of the gay community. Homosexuality was illegal in much of the country and stigmatizedeverywhere; gays were persecuted by the government and regularly attacked bypolice; “out” gay culture simply didn’t exist. But there were stirrings ofthe political changes to come. At Stonewall one night, Danny’s asked to danceby Trevor (Jonathan Rhys Meyers), a darkly handsome activist who invites him toa gay rights meeting and, later, to live with him. Involving one of the lamestsex scenes in recent memory, the relationship between these two comes to anabrupt end when Danny sees Trevor dancing with another cute boy at Stonewall. Advertisement PlaywrightJon Robin Baitz’s script contains loads ofauthentic details, scenes based on real incidents, and many characters modeledon actual people—almost as if he and Emmerich had a checklist of items aimed atimpressing viewers with the film’s historical accuracy. Problem is, all of thisauthenticity is put in the service of a plot that would’ve looked stale in a1970s TV movie, characters as clichéd as anything in vintage Hollywood, anddialogue that sometimes suggests the worst of Off-Off-Broadway. For most of its 129-minute length, “Stonewall” mires us inthe melodramatic doings of its characters, including frequent returns tounhappy Indiana. Only in its last quarter do the riots begin, and here the film’smiscues and mistakes really multiply. First, the four nights of rioting arereduced to a single outburst, which completely undercuts any hope of showinghow a spontaneous bit of vandalism evolved into a conscious rebellion. Second,rather than the initially very playful and comic demonstration described bywitnesses, the riot here almost instantly escalates into a huge, violent battleworthy of Emmerich disaster movies like “Independence Day.” Third, the crucial role of the media—including negative coverageinThe Village Voice, whose offices were a few doors from Stonewall—inturning the riots into a resonant public event is completely ignored. In asense, “Stonewall” should have been much a bigger movie, one big enough to showhow the struggle for gay rights was preceded by and bound up with the battlesto end racial segregation and the war in Vietnam, political feminism and manyother efforts at social change and consciousness raising. At the least, though, the movie should have justified itstitle by showing how “Stonewall” gained its current meaning not from gay peoplehurling bricks through windows but from the political debates and decisions andoften courageous activism that followed the night of June 28, 1969. There’sstill a fascinating movie to be made from that story, one that Emmerich’shyperbolic effusion doesn’t even begin to touch. Advertisement