If you’re a scholar of comedy, “Drunk Stoned Brilliant Dead:The Story of the National Lampoon,” a concise doc about the founding, life,thriving, and death of the '70s-defining satirical magazine, is likely amust-see. It’s an engaging and entertaining film, filled with funny anecdotesexpertly related. It contains some notable “get” interviews. The magazine’sreticent co-founder, Henry Beard, the buttoned-down superego to his Wildmancohort Doug Kenney, appears on camera throughout, which was a surprise to me:Beard, while still an active writer and editor, has kept a downright reclusivepublic profile in the years since the magazine folded. Advertisement Of course, if you are a scholar of comedy, you probablyalready own the coffee table book, edited by former Lampoon contributor RickMeyerowitz, also called “Drunk Stoned Brilliant Dead,” which tells the story ofthe magazine and some of its most notorious staffers. That book also featuresgenerous samplings of the magazine’s work, which the movie, directed by DouglasTirola, can only offer piecemeal, or mutated via animation, a very populartactic in documentaries nowadays. What the movie offers that the book can’t areexciting clips from the Lampoon’s stage show, which featured performances byfuture screen comedy icons such asChevy Chase,John Belushi, ChristopherGuest, Gilda Radner, and many more. The movie does an excellent job ofchronicling how those stage shows gave rise to “Saturday Night Live,” whichcreated a huge talent drain at the magazine, and how the film “NationalLampoon’s Animal House,” while a huge unexpected monster hit that vindicated theinsight of the magazine staffers who conceived it, also diffused the energies ofsome of the magazine’s visionaries. These chronicles are interspersed with a lot of things yousee too much of these days in docs about cultural phenomenons: interviews with celebritieswho tell you why the cultural phenom under examination here was reallyimportant and stuff, animated recreations of particularly outrageous anecdotes, and poignancy. The story of Kenney, who died in a hiking accident in Hawaii in1980, is played out like something out of a Fitzgerald tale with longer hair,while the passing of anger-management failure Michael O’Donoghue elicits a bitless in terms of warm sentiment. As watchable as the movie is, it’s an almost relentlesslyincurioushistory. The founders of themagazine, and its admirers, go on at some length about whatoutsidersBeard and Kenney were as theytried to pitch their spinoff of the Harvard Lampoon to Madison Avenue in thelate 1960s. Yes, you read that right: the Harvard Lampoon. No one can bebothered to point out that an “outsider” coming from Harvard is still, um,coming from Harvard. The doc is similarly unconcerned with the fact that themagazine was by and large not just a boy’s club but also a white boy’s club. It’s not as if the Lampoondidn’t butt heads with feminist forces during its actual existence, and thecanard about women not being funny is far from dead. So it would have been niceto hear from, say, writer Anne Beatts about this, as entertaining as heranecdoteabout getting into the mag by dint of having been a male staffer’sgirlfriend. And while a few black performers are seen in stills from theLampoon’s stage show, the overall aesthetic that comes across in the movie isso almost relentlessly white that one almost has to ask: could Beard, P.J.O’Rourke,     Sean Kelly    , or any of these guys, even ever conceive of having anAfrican-American writer in on an edit meeting? Except nobody making this moviedid. Which, admittedly, doesn’t amount to anything like a massive socialinjustice, unless, maybe you stop for a minute and look hard at what themagazine was satirizing.Advertisement