There’s something really soothing about aNancy Meyersmovie. Everything looks sogood; bothpolishedandcozy. It’s not just thereal estate porn, which had its most blatant manifestation in the Hamptonsbeach house featured in Meyers’ ageism-juggling 2003 rom-com “Something’s GottaGive.” It’s also the furnishings, like the rotating tie rack in the bedroom ofthe brownstone owned byRobert De Niro’s retired businessman in her latest, "The Intern." It’s how all the surfaces gleam: “The Intern” was shot at locations mostlywithin walking distance of where I actually live, and while it is a veryblessed part of Brooklyn, its windows are not normally quite as uniformly shinyas those of the buildings seen here. Advertisement And often this soothing quality serves as a distraction fromhow inane and uncomfortable a movie such as “Something’s Gotta Give” can be.But here’s the thing: “The Intern,” while having its share of silly moments, isthe most genuinely enjoyable and likable movie that Meyers—a longtime writer andproducer before taking up directing—has put her name to since, oh, I don’tknow, 1984’s “Irreconcilable Differences.” De Niro has the title role here, as he did in “Taxi Driver”and “Raging Bull” and even “The King of Comedy.” His character’s name is BenWhittaker, and he’s a retired, well-off widower in Brooklyn who’s bored withthe relative inactivity of his current, pleasant mode of living. So he appliesfor a position in a “Senior Intern Program” at an e-commerce concern called“About The Fit,” and winds up reporting to its founder, Jules, an exemplary,for Meyers, 21stCentury entrepreneur type; not too far beneath hersunny exterior—she IS played byAnne Hathaway, after all—is a highly driven andpossibly blinkered go-getter. De Niro’s character here is one that he pretty much neverplayed during what many consider his acting heyday: a decent, straightforward,non-neurotic regular guy who’s gotten somewhere good in life. And in thismovie, he plays it rather well. There’s something slightly Woody Allenesqueabout his opening scene, in which he constructs a job-application video. Hisrole calls for him to do a certain amount of mugging as he interacts withyounger colleagues and learns about the Weird Things These Kids Today Do WithTheir Relationships And The Internet and such. Thankfully, the movie doesn’tdwell on senior-citizen bemusement with the Digital Age all too much; one ofthe points of De Niro’s character is that he’s alert and competent and wants tobe of service. He has a hard time being of service to Jules, whose relentlessfocus makes her immediately distrustful of anyone who has an insight as to howshe conceives and runs her business. And the movie is rather good at thedetails of that business, and the way that Jules’ vision for it defines its practicalparticulars. But Ben manages to get into Jules’ good graces partly viapatriarchal stealth, as when he confronts Jules’ driver after seeing him take afew nips out of a paper bag right before the soon-to-be-ex-employee is supposedto take her to a meeting in Manhattan. Ben’s internship happens to coincidewith a challenging period in the growth of Jules’ company; Jules’ aide-de-campCameron (a very understatedAndrew Rannells) brings her the unusual news thatthe company’s investors, while delighted with its success, would like to bringan outside CEO to the company. Jules dutifully interviews prospects even asshe’s dizzied by the idea that she could be effectively ousted from her owncreation. In the meantime, her home life—she has a too-milquetoasty-to-be-a-bro-dadhusband (Anders Holm) and a predictably delightful and adorable young daughter(JoJo Kushner)—is taking the standard can-a-career-woman-have-it-all hits. Andat least one hit that’s not so standard, or maybe I should say, not so easy tostand. Advertisement Through all of this Ben maintains a careful, empatheticwatch—early in their relationship, Jules pinpoints her discomfort with him asarising because he’s too “observant”—and when he steps in to offer help, hedoes so in a discreetly chivalrous way that actually runs counter to any “herecomes daddy to save the day” expectations. Ben, as it happens, genuinelyadmires Jules—looks up to her, you might say—and when he does bring hisexperience as a businessman to bear on Jules’ own enterprise, it’s in thespirit of sharing knowledge rather than that of correction. When push comes toshove, Ben offers Jules the assurance that the thing to do is be tough and goafter what you want. The adages of “The Intern” are delivered in a comedy packagethat, for the most part, is sane, sweet, and smart, and a lot of the time,actually funny. A budding romance between Ben and the company’s in-housemasseuse (Rene Russo) is fodder for two groan-inducing visual gags. But a sillyset piece in which Ben enlists some of the younger goofballs of About The Fiton a housebreaking mission, replete with latter-day “Ocean’s Eleven”references, is actually a tolerable bit of rompage. And everyone in the cast,including Hathaway, who, for the record, I have never not liked, is extremelyappealing. “What have you done with my husband?” my wife asked me the othernight when I came home and told her I’d had a genuinely good time watching aNancy Meyers movie. What could I say? You’re never too old to keep an openmind.