Some time in the first hour of “Labyrinth of Lies,” its leadcharacter—a young, ambitious, late-'50s German prosecutor named Johann Radmann—begins to learn the scope of the crimes he’s decided to investigate in thehopes of breaking out of trying traffic violation cases. A former Nazi partymember has been found to hold a teaching position nearby; this violates Germanlaw, although most of the bureaucrats overseeing this sort of thing have beenhappy to look the other way. It emerges that the school employee was a guard ata place called Auschwitz. Although the Nuremberg trials have already takenplace, German reporting on the international court had apparently been sketchy;Radmann’s never heard of Auschwitz, and neither have many of his friends andcolleagues.Advertisement Radmann soon finds out enough, and when doggedly pursues justice, never reflects on whether he might have bitten off more than he can chew.Neither does the movie itself, directed by Italian-born actor GiulioRicciarelli, most of whose filmography is German-based. Ricciarelli co-wrotethe script withElisabeth Bartel, and while the movie’s lead character is whatthey call a composite, the movie is fact-based, concerning the firstprosecutions of Nazi war criminals within Germany itself. There’s a compellingcinematic story here, perhaps, but Ricciarelli’s movie is too diffused andscattered and, especially in its first hour, too reliant on commonplaces.Radmann, played by the handsome but rather stiffAlexander Fehling, is analmost too-good-to-be-true fiction, the guy who stands in the hallway in anoverhead shot while the rest of his colleagues are going to their offices, andthen retrieves from a wastepaper basket a document about that Nazi “case” thatnone of his fellows want to touch with a ten-foot-pole. He collaborates with afiery, feisty German journalist named Gnielka (André Szymanski) who introduceshim to the world of postwar, pre-counterculture Euro bohemia, and these sceneshave a certain charm. But crusaders, victims, and perpetrators are all paintedwith the standard contemporary brush; the bad guys have just enough banality ofevil, the survivors have the clichéd mix of defeated slouch and stiff spines,and so on. It’s rather tiresome, with the bonus of making the viewer feel badabout finding it tiresome. Which means, finally, that it’s a betrayal of thereality it’s trying to portray, and one would be better of re-viewing “Shoah”again. Radmann becomes obsessed with tracking down one particularlyheinous Auschwitz denizen, one Dr. Josef Mengele. If you don’t know how thatpursuit turns/turned out, well I won’t “spoil” it for you…but by the sametoken, you should be ashamed of yourself. As Radmann goes off on his owntangents, his boss, the Attorney General Bauer (Gert Voss) tries to straightenhis focus, working an agenda of his own. As the movie progresses, story themes emerge that are moreactively interesting, although they’re not explored with any particularartistry. The deeper Radmann digs, the more Nazis he finds. Pursuing a linefleshed out in the controversial history account “Hitler’s WillingExecutioners,” Radmann discovers that no one is innocent, not even those heonce most admired. This proves tough to him to handle. There’s a potentiallysearing psychological drama in this kind of stuff, and while Ricciarelli doesuse the material to underscore an object lesson on what the true nature ofinvestigation and justice ought to be, he doesn’t take any meaningful artisticadvantage of the material. So the movie winds up being—to put it kindly—mildlyintellectually satisfying while entirely emotionally flat. In an interestingside note, an American Army officer who oversees wartime archives, andreluctantly (at first) assists Radmann in his research, is played by one TimWilliams, whom American viewers may recognize as the somewhat smarmy dude inthe ads for travel-discount website Trivago. He’s sarcastic but notparticularly creepy here and he speaks excellent German, for what it’s worth.