Althoughthe very idea of combining Christmas cheer and grisly gore is probably stillenough to send certain people into pearl-clutching apoplexy, Yuletide-relatedbloodbaths have proven to be a popular trope for horror filmmakers over theyears. On the grand scale of big-screen Noel nastiness, ranging from suchclassics as that segment of "Tales from the Crypt" where nasty JoanCollins was stalked by a psycho Santa, the original slasher classic "BlackChristmas," the demented cult film "Christmas Evil" (whichshould be seen by every man, woman and child simply for the ending alone) the immortal "Gremlins," to such garbage as the once-controversial"Silent Night, Deadly Night" and the crummy remake of "BlackChristmas," the new anthology film "A Christmas Horror Story"lands squarely in the middle. Advertisement Takingplace on Christmas Eve, the film is set in Bailey Downs, a seemingly bucolictown that is still reeling from the horrific tragedy exactly one year earlierwhen two teenagers were found brutally slaughtered in the basement of the localhigh school, a building that previously housed a convent with its own set ofunsavory secrets. Because the crime remains unsolved, ambitious teen Molly (thewonderfully-named Zoe De Grand Maison) convinces fellow classmates Dylan(Shannon Kook), Ben (Alex Ozerov) and Caprice (Amy Forsyth) to sneak into thebuilding with a video camera as part of a class assignment. At the last second,Caprice cannot go because she is forced to go on a trip with her loathsomefamily to pay a surprise visit to a rich great-aunt and their generalmisbehavior attracts the attentions of Krampus, the legendary anti-Santa whocomes out on Christmas Eve to punish the wicked in brutal fashion. Meanwhile, the cop who found himself in themiddle of the investigation of the previous year's slaughter (Adrian Holmes)goes out with his wife (Olunike Adeliyi) and young son to an area clearlymarked "No Trespassing" to cut down a Christmas tree for theirapartment. Alas, the kid disappears for a few minutes and when he does return,he begins acting very strange. While all of this is going on, Santa Claus(George Buza) is at the North Pole preparing for his annual ride when his elves become infected with something that turns them intoviolent undead psychopaths that he must dispatch in gory fashion. Presiding over thevarious narratives is Dangerous Dan (William Shatner), an increasinglyinebriated DJ pulling a double holiday shift who rants about the true meaningof Christmas while supplying increasingly dire tidbits about some strangenessdown at the local mall where the station's put-upon weatherman is taking partin a food drive. Unlikemost horror anthologies, which offer up one complete story after another (a la"Creepshow"), "A Christmas Horror Story" tells its tales byinter-cutting its various narratives along the lines of whatRobert Altmandidin bringing the stories ofRaymond Carverto the screen in "ShortCuts." Considering that the film is the product of three separatedirectors and four screenwriters, this is a fairly ambitious approach to takeand the end result is surprisingly coherent in the way that it brings thevarious stories together. The problem is that by doing it this way, the film isconstantly undercutting its own ability to generate any real suspense becausewhenever one of the stories begins to generate any real head of steam, viewersare jerked into another one and the whole process starts over again. After awhile, the whole thing just becomes an exercise in frustration and by the end,the only real suspense comes from the question of how the film is going toultimately reconcile the seemingly out-of-place tale of Santa fighting offhordes of zombie elves with the others. (It does, amazingly, but while thesolution might have seemed like a nifty bit of outrageous dark humor on thepage, it just doesn't quite play that way on its feet.) Advertisement Would"A Christmas Horror Story" have played better if it had a typicalanthology structure? Probably not, though, as is the case with most films ofthis, the mileage will vary from viewer to viewer. The story in the schoolbasement is pretty much a hodgepodge of familiar spook story cliches but doesbenefit from a nice performance from Zoe De Grand Maison (seriously, that nameis so great that if someone marries her and doesn't take her name, they are afool) and a couple of sudden "BOO!" moments that actually work. Thestory involving Krampus (who is getting his own mainstream feature this Christmas)has a couple of nicely nasty bits but takes too long to build to a finale thatjust isn't that much in the end. The one with the kid and the tree is nicelycreepy at times but is a little too gleeful in its depiction of a little kiddoing violent things and getting whacked several times with a baseball bat inreturn. As for the Santa stuff, it is fun in a dumb way and George Buza isoddly effective as the jolly one. But as a wise man once didn't quite say, ifyou've seen one homicidal elf, you've seen them all."A Christmas HorrorStory" doesn't quite make it in the end, but if the filmmakers were to tryit again next year (if theanthologyhorrorindie "     V/H/S    " can spin off a couple of sequels,anything is possible), I would be curious to check it out.