What if all those people who told you metal was the devil’smusic were right? What if playing the right heavy tune could actually bringforth the end of the world? Such is the clever premise ofJason Lei Howden’spromising zom-rom-com debut “Deathgasm,” a film destined for midnight moviemarathons. As is often the case with films that crib from the horror-comedymasters likePeter Jackson, the balance is tougher to pull off than it firstappears, and “Deathgasm” gets a bit numbing and repetitive before it’s over,but there’s enough fun, clever material here for metalheads and horror fans tolike until Sean Byrne’s superior “The Devil Candy” (a TIFF hit that also playswith that elusive dynamic between metal and Satan) lands sometime next year. Advertisement Brodie (the naturalMilo Cawthorne) has just moved to amiserable new town, one in which he clearly doesn’t belong. Staying with hisultra-religious aunt and uncle, Brodie wears his metalhead status like a crown,refusing to give into bullies like his cousin or the perceived suburban norm.After a few false starts of friendship with other social misfits who havesuffered similar bully abuse, Brodie finally thinks he’s found a soulmate in Zakk(James Blake) another guy who paints his face and rocks out. Brodie also noticesthe prettiest girl at school, the charming Medina (Kimberley Crossman), andfalls hard, even though she’s dating his jock cousin. After being bullied onetoo many times and failing to win the heart of the blonde lass, Brodie plays asong with his new band, DEATHGASM (all caps, of course), and inadvertently bringsforth a demon force known as The Blind One, instantly plunging their normalcorner of the world into bloody chaos. Can the rockers survive the end of theworld? I do meaninstantly.One of the more admirable elements of “Deathgasm” is how little time Howdenwastes once the demonic viscera hits the fan. This is not a slow burn—it’s anorgy of crazy violence and impressive make-up effects. Before the guys know it,everyone around them has been possessed by something that looks like what Ashlocked in the basement in “Evil Dead 2.” The summoning song is played andsuddenly people are puking blood and faces are getting power-sanded. Through itall, Howden keeps an admirable, Jackson-esque levity in the film that worksmore often than it falters. Dialogue like, “It’sweird, but I think he would have wanted to go out like this,” after aparticularly brutal death keep things from getting overly gross and repulsively gory for a while(I also particularly enjoyed a bad guy ordering someone be decapitated a secondtime to confused looks of his minions).However, gorehounds need not worry that a movie called “Deathgasm”plays it safe. This is a defiantly, well, metal movie. From a possessed humanbeing bludgeoned with a sex toy to a guy whose head and spine are literallyripped from his body, there are a number of opportunities for the film’sfanbase to give devil horns to the screen. At its best, it’s like a Megadethalbum cover sprung to life. The only problems come, as they often do in filmslike this, in the pacing department. To be honest, it’s another trait sharedwith metal in that a lot of heavy albums get numbing and exhausting around the2/3rds mark. That’s about when I was ready for “Deathgasm” to finish up itsencore. Advertisement Howden’s debut is helped greatly by his cast, especiallyCawthorne and Crossman, a cute couple who go well beyond “dork” and “populargirl” to ground their characters in ways that horror often misses. The directorand his stars commit to the insanity of their project. They’re the kind of fanswho don’t just go to a concert, they wear the t-shirt of the band playingthat night, paint their faces, and trick out their car with paintings of devilsand dragons. That commitment can be infectious—or at least admirable.