“Northern Soul” is the motion-picture feature debut of thephotographerElaine Constantine, whose work in stills has shown a knack forcapturing the particularities of youth culture. So this movie, a gritty kind ofbildungsroman set in an extremely particular music and dance scene inworking-class Britain in the early ‘70s, is an apt fit for her talents. AndConstantine does well with the looks and the sounds and the settings—the moviehas a lot more period panache than the recent Jimi Hendrix treatment “All Is ByMy Side,” to name another recent made-in-England period piece aboutPersonalities In Music. However, where this movie comes up short is in bringing any kindof real life to its bildungsroman side. Advertisement Stop me if you’ve heard this one before: Spindly, paleBurnsworth teen John (Elliot James Landridge) has concerned, uptight parents(one of whom is played byLisa Stansfield, who really deserves better) who saythings like “He’s turning into a weirdo." He’s also got a brash bitterschoolteacher (Steve Coogan, in a bit part) who says things like “You won’tamount to anything,” and he’s got a kindly granddad whose nickname is “DeadMeat.” Okay, I made up that last bit. But, seriously: stop me if you’ve heardthis one before. On reading a graffito that says “Northern Soul” in a loostall, and hearing some fabulous soul horns at a dance, John starts to stumbletowards a sense of purpose. The story’s been written a million times before, itseems, and rather more concisely byLou Reed—see the song “Rock And Roll” as in“his/her life was saved by,” on “Loaded,” the fourth Velvet Underground album. Now as it happens, Northern Soul is a real thing in Britain,albeit a real thing that’s a little difficult for Americans disinterested byacross-the-pond subcultures to work up too much concern about. Northern Soul isa British categorization for an entirely American music—black R&B recordsof the Motown variety but more obscure, a tribal variant of a kind oftrainspotting music snobbery. As John finds himself immersed in the scene,exchanging secret handshakes of sorts and aspiring to shine as a DJ, some ofthe weird practices of the scene come to light. A celebrated elder DJ is seenplaying a “cover-up” record, that is, a hot tune of reasonable obscurity thathe wants to keep to himself, so he plays it with the 45 label covered up. Latein the movie John and his partner in rhythm Matt (with whom he has a fractiousrelationship, just imagine) come across a much-coveted “cover-up” and book awhole dance based on the promise of revealing its identity. This stuff soundssilly when you’re writing about it as an adult putting together a movie review,but I can honestly remember how vital some variants of such events could feelto me as an adolescent. Where “Northern Soul” comes up short is in compellingthe viewer to share in such exhilarations. The storyline is so rote that the idiosyncrasies of the scene don’t register with any power. Here’s a question: If a particular music is so exciting and liberating to a person at an early stage of life, does it necessarily follow that that person nevertheless gets heavily messed up on drugs via the milieu that delivers said music? Because according to this movie and every other damn movie made on such subjects, the answer would seem to be, “Sorry, yes." “This is underground, but it’s gonna be massive” declaims onecharacter at an early point in his journey; the movie ultimately comes aroundto concluding that even if “massive” never happens, the bonds forged in theunderground smithies can be forever. That might be true, but it’s notparticularly moving when it’s iterated in such a trite, predictable fashion.