“Addicted to Fresno” is such a mean-spirited, dull and sillymovie that it buries its talented cast under the weight of a horrendous scriptthat they can’t possibly redeem. Much like the recent “Staten Island Summer,” it’s a “comedy”with a great ensemble given almost nothing funny to do. Similar to that film, itmakes one wonder why so many actors and actresses who should know they’re abovethis material chose not to be for a few weeks of filming. My guess is that theinvolvement of Jamie Babbitt propelled them to sign on the bottom line, as theylikely worked with the excellent TV director on “Married,” “Girls,” “PlayingHouse,” “Drop Dead Diva,” “United States of Tara,” “The Middle” or a dozenother hit shows. Babbitt is generally a confident, capable TV director, but shecan’t rescueKarey Dornetto’s script from its misanthropic foundation. This isa film mostly populated by awful people doing awful things that awful peopleonly do in awful movies. Advertisement Shannon (Judy Greer) has moved in with her sister Martha(Natasha Lyonne) after running away from rehab for sex addiction. She’s alsobeen forced to get a job at the same hotel at which Martha works, run byKristen (Jessica St. Clair), and where she meets Martha’s friendly co-workerEric (Malcolm Barrett). Meanwhile, Shannon is sleeping with her marriedtherapist Edwin (Ron Livingston) while Martha struggles with a recent break-upand ignores the advances of Kelly (Aubrey Plaza), who’s clearly romanticallyinterested. What starts as a character dramedy a la “Sunshine Cleaning”becomes something much different when Shannon decides to have quickie sex witha hotel guest (Jon Daly), and Martha bursts in on them. Shannon cries rape,Martha moves to defend her sister, and the guy ends up dead. Now, the sistershave to dispose of a body, which actually takes this sitcom-ish story to acrematorium and a Bar Mitzvah that the girls choose to rob.Molly Shannon, FredArmisen,Kumail Nanjianiand Alison Tolman co-star in small roles. All shouldhave known better. There are so many unlikable characters and blatantly Look AtHow Edgy We Are joke topics here that it’s hard to keep track—rape, addiction,murder, dementia, Down’s Syndrome, etc. Do you find these things inherentlyhilarious? “Addicted to Fresno” is for you. Using this kind ofmaterial for humor is certainly not impossible, but it does demand a difficult tonal balancethat Dornetto can’t manage. It’s more often gross and off-putting than funny.It’s like a stand-up comedian trying out their new, edgy material to the sound ofclinking glasses and hearty sighs. Do you think an old woman in a birthday hatin a wheelchair saying “poopy” is funny? Do you know anyone who does? If so,you may want to find new friends. Advertisement The cast is so talented that “Addicted to Fresno” gets moredepressing as you realize how much they’re going to be wasted. There are a fewmoments in which that talent shines through—the first scene between Greer &Shannon, a funny bit with Nanjiani, Armisen & Tolman’s first scene—but they’realmost instantly buried by material that falls flat. By the time the girls areplanning to boost gifts from a Bar Mitzvah, my brain had completely checked outand gone somewhere more interesting, safer, and funnier.