For Iranian directorJafar Panahi, officially banned by hiscountry from making films and traveling for at least the next decade,necessity and courage have been the mothers of his cinematic invention. Underdifferent circumstances Panahi has forged sharp, full-hearted parables andcritiques of life in his country, such as the 2003 crime drama “Crimson Gold” andthe 2006 anti-official-sexism story “Offside.” After his conviction on vague“propaganda” charges in 2010, his access to conventional means of filmproduction was completely cut off, so he resorted to a home video camera and aniPhone to make his 2011 “This Is Not A Film,” a searing and movingself-portrait that also, in spite of or perhaps because of the constraints ofits setting, also served as an unsettling portrait of his country. 2013’s“Closed Curtain,” also made in secret with a very limited crew, took thedirector’s experience of cultural and social isolation to a near-surrealextreme. Panahi’s latest act of defiance is entirely commendable on a number oflevels, but I regret to say that from my own perspective, “Taxi” is the weakestof the films he’s made since he was enjoined from making them. Advertisement The movie’s title lays out its framework. The action isconfined to the interior of a taxi in Iran’s capital city of Tehran. The cab’sequipped with a few cameras that can cover the passenger seat, back seat,driver’s seat, and there’s a view out the front windshield as well. And behindthe wheel is … guess who? Panahi himself, and it’s heartening to see him herelooking relatively cheerful given the depressive and near-despairing stateschronicled in his two prior pictures. Right away the movie gets into “theissues” as it were, with one passenger loudly declaiming that hubcap thievesought to be hanged not as a matter of consistent policy but as a deterrent,insurance that those contemplating such crimes “get the message.” Then thistruculent fellow criticizes Panahi’s driving and sense of direction. Once that fare has been dispatched, another passenger notesthat the angry fellow seems to have been enacting a patch of dialogue fromPanahi’s “Crimson Gold.” This brings up the question as to whether what we’rewatching is a documentary or a series of stages scenes, something that’s neverreally resolved. The weird intermediate state of things is perhaps meant tokeep the viewer off balance, but the resultant experience is more frustratingthan beguiling or provocative. The number of fares (or "fares") who recognizePanahi immediately and make knowing comments about his work could be enacting apurposeful strategy of reflexivity … or the whole thing is some kind of misguidedexercise in self-aggrandizement. (“The people of cinema can always be reliedon,” one fare says to Panahi warmly.) Near the end, the picture picks up some steam. After a ratherreverse-cloying exchange with a niece, Panahi picks up a woman on her way to aprison visit, who delivers a bracing indictment of the country’s penal systemand then comments that were her views to appear in a Panahi film, that movie would be banned on the grounds of “sordid realism.” That latter phrase isallowed to settle into the viewer’s consciousness for a little while before atitle card informs the audience that the movie’s credits, if there are to beany, need to be approved by the “Ministry of Islamic Guidance.” These chillingmoments underscore the unusual fact that whatever I might have gotten out of“Taxi” from the perspective of my own enlightenment and/or enjoyment, it’snevertheless a film that on a very crucial level needs to exist. Advertisement