There’s a moment inLyric R. Cabraland David FelixSutcliffe’s excellent “(T)ERROR” in which everyone in the audience willinstantly sit up and move forward in their seat, expressing shock with theirbody language. I almost wish I could see it in a theater just to witness it.Executive produced byEugene Jarecki(“Why We Fight”) and Nick Fraser (“Man onWire”), this is a fascinating piece of work that approaches “Citizenfour” in its deconstruction of governmental failure and the systems underneath the war on terror that are not only failing to keep us safe but impacting the entire world political scene. Advertisement “(T)ERROR” began life when filmmaker Cabral discovered thather friend from her Harlem neighborhood, Saeed “Shariff” Torres, was an FBI informant. How did she learn this? He told her. And heeven agreed to let her film the next sting on which he was dispatched. Shariffis like hundreds of freelance FBI informants, men and women brought in by thegovernment to get close to potential terrorists, discover what they’replanning, and turn them in. These informants, who certainly don’t have bureautraining, are getting close to people, forming friendships, and then betrayingthem. And anyone with a working understanding of human nature will be naturallyconcerned about the possibility of entrapment when working-class people arebeing paid by the government to build cases. Shariff is open and honest abouthis need to make ends meet, talking about how he wants to open a bakery, andhow this will be his last sting. Shariff’s latest assignment is to befriend a man suspectedof being a Taliban sympathizer. We get little explanation as to why this man isa suspect other than a few Facebook posts, rumors, and an assumption that theFBI must have more information that they’re not sharing with Shariff or us. (Wedon’t hear much from the FBI, only in text form between Shariff and his bosses,in which he’s advised how to proceed with the “POI”—Person of Interest). We seeShariff’s attempts at friendship with the POI, even if he admits that he hasnothing in common with the subject. We see him trying to get paid from the FBIfor his work. And then the picture gets muddy. Cabral and Sutcliffe reveal that Shariff was a part of amajor case from years earlier, one in which a musician named Tarik Shah wasconvicted of conspiring to provide material support for terrorism. He has beenserving a sentence since 2007. We meet Shah’s mother, who speaks of her son’s friendshipwith Shariff, and details exactly how he was put away. Let’s just say there arelegitimate questions about how things happened, at least as presented in “(T)ERROR.”At the very least, we should question the veracity of terrorist threats thatdon’t really exist outside of a paid informant and his conversations with afriend. Advertisement For around 30 minutes, “(T)ERROR” is an interestingcharacter study of a man with a fascinating story to tell. Shariff is avibrant, interesting guy—the kind of person who probably knows most of the peoplein his neighborhood. He’s also, if you believe him and the FBI, on thefrontlines of keeping us from the next 9/11. That story alone would have beenan interesting one, but “(T)ERROR” takes a turn in the second act that deepensthe entire piece, and Cabral and Sutcliffe don’t look back from there, paintinga portrait of a system that is flawed at best, corrupt at worst, and deeplybroken. LikeLaura Poitraswith “Citizenfour,” they are careful to let thestory speak for itself, only layering on dispiriting statistics at the veryend. Sutcliffe reportedly got involved after working on an hour-long film forPBS on a Muslim teenager falsely accused of being a suicide bomber. In the wakeof 9/11, we all sought a greater sense of comfort and freedom from our fear.And yet that fear has led to dynamics like the one captured in “(T)ERROR,” afilm that feels depressingly essential to understanding that just because wehaven’t been attacked doesn’t mean we’re winning the war.