Eversince he first burst upon the scene in 1988 with his hypnotic debut feature"Tales from the Gimli Hospital,"Guy Maddinhas been one of thosefilmmakers whose new work I most eagerly look forward to seeing. In a time whenmost movies are little more than filmed deals that can spend millions ofdollars on elaborate special effects sequences that fade from the mind almostas soon as they play out, he has created some of the most bizarre, hilarious,haunting and memorable imagery that I have ever seen in a film—who couldforget the sight of beer baronessIsabella Rossellinistanding upon artificiallegs filled with her own product in "The Saddest Music in the World," or the horses stuck in the middle of a frozen river in "My Winnipeg"?Even if the films themselves do not entirely work as a whole (not that thishappens very often), one can always be certain that one or two moments that will go straight into your movie memory bank. Advertisement Hislatest film is "The Forbidden Room," co-directed withEvan Johnson. Even by Maddin's standards, it isa pretty wild ride in all aspects, starting with its very concept. From what Ihave been able to gather, the initial inspiration was a pair of museuminstallations in Paris and Montreal in which Maddin and a small crew wouldshoot a complete short film a day while the public looked on, and the resultingfilms are to be a part of a future interactive website project. The conceitbehind the individual films is that they were all inspired by titles of oldfilms that have either been lost or which were never made in the first place.Here, they have all been combined into a hallucinatory fantasia in which more than18 different narratives bounce off of and flow into each other in unexpectedways, while Maddin presents them in a style reminiscent of the eraspanning the end of the silent era and the beginning of the talkies. The filmopens with the faux-educational film "How to Take a Bath," in which acreepy old man instructs viewers on the finer points of bathing while we seepeople putting his theories into practice. From there, we journey to asubmarine in imminent danger of disaster—the captain has gone nuts, a case of"explosive jelly" has gone bad and will blow up if the sub tries tosurface, and there is only two days of oxygen left. (Luckily, the crew is ableto extend their breathing time thanks to their all-pancake diet—they are ableto consume the air bubbles contained in said griddle cakes.) The turmoil of thecrew is interrupted by the inexplicable arrival of a novice lumberjack (a"saplingjack," if you will) with a story to tell about his efforts torescue the fair Margot from a fearsome gang known as the Red Wolves—toinfiltrate the gang, he must endure a series of trials that includes offalpiling and bladder slapping contests. For her part, Margot soon disappears intoher own dream world where she becomes an amnesiac flower girl, sings in a nightcluband lands on an island with volcanoes, squid thieves and a "LostGeneration attorney" with whom she has a brief lesbian affair. Needlessto say, there is much more. A surgeon who has spent virtually his entire lifeat the Oracle Bones Hospital and who is said to have "never been more thanone hundred paces from the bones" saves a woman suffering from multiplebone fractures following a motorcycle accident—he takes her to an islandparadise to propose, but at the last second is kidnapped by "The Skull-FacedMan and his gang of Skeletal Insurance Defrauders," all decked out inpoisonous leotards. Other characters are somehow transformed into mutatedbananas. A man forgets to get his wife a birthday present, and instead creates aruse that requires him to murder his butler at one point. The family of thedead man hardly notices, and a recording of his voice winds up filling most ofhis usual duties. Another gift-related incident goes wrong when a man buys hisbeloved a statue of Janus, and winds up creating a malevolent double of himselfdubbed "Lug Lug—Hideous Impulse Incarnate." Advertisement The endresult is a head-spinner to be sure—not only does it not make any sense in thetraditional definition of the word, it doesn't even attempt to do so—and thosewho demand that their films offer up some kind of conventional narrativestructure will no doubt throw up their hands and leave early on in theproceedings. Those that stick it out, however, will be rewarded with onedelight after another. Technically, it is a delight from start to finish thatcinema buffs will adore for how Maddin and his crew have somehowmanaged to take something that was shot digitally and give it the look and feelof something shot around 1930 and misplaced soon afterwards. There isalso a lot of wit on display here, with Maddin and his four co-writers deployingeverything from jet-black humor to surreal silliness to pure and unadulteratedgoofiness and hitting their targets more often than not. In this regard, Maddin & Johnson have lucked into a cast that is for the most part on his particular wavelength, and are able to properly sell the oddball material. Among the familiar facesthat pop up here, sometimes in multiple roles, areUdo Kier,Mathieu Amalric,Caroline Dhavernas,Geraldine Chaplin, Maria de Mederios and the divineCharlotte Rampling, an actress whose entire career has been dedicated to thekind of risk-taking spirit that this film celebrates in every single scene. The onlyreal flaw with "The Forbidden Room" is that it is pretty much thedictionary definition of the phrase "too much of a good thing." Asanyone who has seen Maddin's stunning 2000 short film "The Heart of theWorld" (possibly the pinnacle of his career) can attest, he can cram morecomplex storytelling and memorable imagery into a few minutes of screen timethan most filmmakers can muster in an entire career. That is certainly the casehere but with a running time just under two hours, even Maddin's most ardentfans may find themselves getting exhausted after a while from the sheeronslaught of visual overload. And yet, while it might have gone down easier ata slightly reduced running time, I cannot easily think of anything in it that Iwould want to drop in order to achieve that goal. "TheForbidden Room" is weird, esoteric, and probably not the ideal entrypoint for curious moviegoers who have not yet experienced the glory of a GuyMaddin film for themselves—those people might be better served with a look at"The Saddest Music in the World." For those who have enjoyed his workin the past and those who like to be a little adventurous when it comes totheir moviegoing, this is the kind of audacious filmmaking thatdeserves to be recognized and which will no doubt inspire any numberof impassioned discussions among its viewers while having dinner afterwards. Besure to get the pancakes—you'll need them. Advertisement