“Victoria” is a breathtaking technical accomplishment. It’sright there in the tagline—“One City. OneNight. One Take.” For 138 minutes,Sebastian Schipperand his cast filmedthe entirety of “Victoria,” reportedly only doing the entire piece a few timesand picking the best one. In other words, there are no “cheats” here. No hiddencuts when a door closes or someone walks by a suspicious wall. It is literallyone take, and it takes place all over Berlin, at night, even developing into anintense action movie. Sadly, the second half of “Victoria” isn’t asbreathtaking as the first, as characters are forced to make some unbelievablydumb decisions just to fit into the one-take structure, almost leading one toquestion if there isn’t a better version of “Victoria” that allowed for two orthree takes. Advertisement The best thing about “Victoria” isn’t actually its technicalprowess—it’s the lead performance from the mesmerizingLaia Costaas the titlecharacter. She holds the camera from first frame to last as Schipper doesn’tleave her perspective on what will surely be one of the most unforgettable nightsof this young woman’s life. Victoria is on holiday in Berlin. We meet her clubbingin one of the major city's many hotspots—an underground dance hall with nowindows. On her way out, likely to another club, Victoria meets a quartet ofguys, and they naturally take notice of this vibrant, beautiful young lady.Sonne (Frederick Lau) strikes up a flirtation, and the first half of “Victoria”actually plays more like one ofRichard Linklater’s “Before” movies than onemight expect. Victoria and Sonne do a lot of walking and talking, SebastianSchipper and cinematography Sturla Brandth Grovlen’s camera circling aroundthis likable pair. Their conversations feel heartfelt and genuine, particularlyone in a closed café at right around the hour mark. And that’s where “Victoria” turns a corner. One of the guysin Sonne’s group ends up getting drunk enough to essentially become useless, andwe learn that these guys have some unexpected plans for the evening. Rathersurprisingly, “Victoria” becomes a heist film as our quiet protagonist has tobecome a getaway driver. Schipper’s camera movements get more hectic, the filmgets more impatient, and it essentially turns into an action film. It’s interestingto watch how even in a one-take film, form impacts content. There’s no room forediting, but choices are still being made here, as the form often mimics themood. It’s jubilant and fluid in club scenes; panicked and shaky when thatreflects the character’s state of being. The camera itselfbecomesa character in “Victoria,” someone else on the journey ofthis unforgettable night. It doesn’t so much feel like we’re reflectingVictoria’s perspective as much as we’re another member of the party, someonewho doesn’t want to leave our heroine alone in this dangerous city. Costa is simply perfect here. Watch the way her eyes conveythe emotion of the moment, whether or not it’s in the cautious flirtation withSonne or the fear of the second act. She’s often an observer to the insanity ofwhat’s going on around her, and she does so much internally, embodying thecharacter in ways that were likely dictated by the form. She’s not allowed theescape of setting up another shot or altering performance over multiple takes.It makes for a deeply honest, genuine performance. Advertisement Sadly, the film kind of lets her down at a certain point.The pace sags significantly at around the 90-minute mark and never quiterecovers from it with 48 minutes to spare. Like a lot of nights out on the townin major cities in our twenties, it goes on just a bit too long, gettingexhausting before it’s over. And yet it’s easy to remember and focus on thehighlights, which are plentiful for at least the running time of an averagemovie. If anything, the greatest accomplishment of “Victoria” is that you stopwondering how it was done and experience the characters and their incrediblejourney. It becomes less a movie about one take and more a movie about onecharacter.