“Meadowland” hinges on an inciting incident so horrifyingthat it’s really unfathomable to imagine, even for those of us who havechildren. Conveying a grief that most people will never have to endure can be adifficult task for a filmmaker, and they often fall back on over-telling suchstories, making sure every line of dialogue and every shot selection drips withpain. Such is the case withReed Morano’s directorial debut “Meadowland,” a film with two verystrong central performances from a pair of underrated actors that falters by being so self-aware of the tortured existence it’sattempting to capture. In the end, it feels like Morano didn’t trust her actorsquite enough to be the conduits of emotion, falling back on too many filmmakingand screenwriting tropes that hamper the realism of their work. Advertisement Sarah (Olivia Wilde) and Phil (Luke Wilson) pull over at agas station in the opening scene of “Meadowland.” Their son goes into thebathroom and doesn’t come out. There was a door in the back of the restroomleading to the garage, the street, and the rest of the world, and he’s gonewithout a trace. As a father of three, even writing that sentence sends chillsup my spine. I can’t imagine the pain. And “Meadowland” wastes no time jumpinginto that bottomless well. This will be a movie about grief. This will be amovie about suffering. “Meadowland” jumps forward a year to reveal Sarah and Philquietly imploding over the disappearance. They try to go about relativelynormal lives—Sarah is a teacher, Phil a cop—but the lack of resolution seems tobe one of the most haunting elements of daily life. They can’t even bury theirchild. And cops come with pictures of children found on the internet or inraids and ask if it’s their son. Sarah refuses to even look anymore, while Philseems to hold out a glimmer of hope that he’ll be found. Sarah also happens to be a teacher, a far-too-convenientstorytelling device for Morano. In an early scene, her students are readingpoetry about how your eyes adjust to the dark—“You don’t know when it’s going to be light again. It might just keepgetting darker.” This kind of self-aware scripting pops up again and againin “Meadowland.” The movie actually works best when Sarah and Phil are silent,as Morano, a cinematographer by trade who also shot this film, captures the gloomy,overcast existence of two people living in misery. The problems lie in ChrisRossi’s over-explanatory script, which almost seems to be pushing and pullingwith Morano’s more dreamlike visual style and emotional skill with the actors. Advertisement Even the structure of “Meadowland” can be frustrating, as wewatch Sarah get closer to a student with Asperger’s who is clearly unloved byhis parents and bullied at school. The idea that a teacher would be drawn to a surrogateson after losing her own is a fascinating one, but Rossi handles it in a clunkyfashion, not really conveying what Sarah thinks she’ll get out of the relationship.Similarly, Phil meets a man (John Leguizamo) at a support group who has a darkstory of his own. Like the Sarah arc, it’s a narratively frustrating element from the film's too-literal melodrama. Despite those frustrations, “Meadowland” is ample proof yetagain of the underutilized talents of Olivia Wilde and Luke Wilson. Wilde has away of breaking through the overwritten dialogue to find the truth. Her quietmoments in the classroom, lost in near-suicidal thought, say more about Sarah’sarc than any line in the film. Despite her striking beauty, she seems to befolding in on herself, unable to live in the cruel world. She wears a hoodie, acting look like the air hurts her skin. Wilde is great here, and she’smatched by Luke Wilson, another actor who seems to be getting more confidentand interesting with age. They’re the reason to see “Meadowland,” and nearlyrescue the piece from the melodramatic swamp into which it eventually sinks.