Don’t you hate it when you’re Googling instructions on howto file for bankruptcy on your computer, and all of a sudden your house startsactually shuddering, a flash of lighting happens inside your own living room,and suddenly a guy who look like all of his flesh had been flayed off, and hassome kind of stretchy membrane coating his facial features and blocking his mouth, starts moving in agonized pain across your floor? It’s distracting, right? Andsay you’re the little fellow of the house and you get a late-night hankeringfor a peanut-butter sandwich, and just as you’re laying down the peanut butter, the lightning flashes and there’s the aforementioned dude crouching around thecorner of your kitchen cabinets, and he scares you so much you drop your plateand cut your feet on the shards? Then there’s that thing when some otherworldlyforce takes over your laundry room, and after making the appliances practicallybounce around the floor, out of the dryer pops Mr. Flayed Skin Dude? Oy vey. Advertisement Unexplained malevolent forces manifest themselves asExtremely Irritating Household Disturbances in “The Diabolical," the debut featurefrom directorAlistair Legrand, who co-wrote the film withLuke Harvis. To itscredit, the economical horror/sci-fi film gets right into the swing of thescary stuff; the bankruptcy-exploration-interruption is the movie’s very firstscene. Single mom Madison (Ali Larter) and her kids Jacob and Haley (Max Roseand Chloe Perrin) are not quite inured to these weird interludes, but they’reused to them. Jacob, a super-smart kid who’s also battling anger issues,vehemently denies to younger sister Haley that the strange being visiting themis the ghost of their departed dad, but there are hints that whoever theinterloper is, he knows the family well. An early visit from some psychicdetectives yields no useful info—in fact the investigators leave the house in aclose-mouthed semi-panic—and soon an oily real-estate fellow shows up tellingthe strapped-for-cash and behind-on-the-mortgage-payments Madison that he’s ina position to make a “very attractive offer” on the house. Problem solved? Not quite. Further developments make itnot-so-desirable for Madison and the kids to actuallyleavethe house, so for Madison it’s back to Google, where shefinds some intriguing news concerning proton accelerator experiments. Really.Enlisting her boyfriend, Jacob’s science teacher Nikolai (Arjun Gupta), theyhole up and try to collect “data,” as the reappearing visitor takes more andmore solid human form. The mystery they uncover, while not entirely unfamiliaronce the pieces come together, yields some reasonably diverting twists. Only trouble is, none of the elements—thescary stuff, the psychological drama, the family-dynamic crises—really deliverthe wallop necessary to provide truly memorable horror fare. There’s also thefact that, while having a horrifying figure with flayed skin emerge from awashing machine door is both a novel and memorable trope/image, it’s also akind of ridiculous one. I’ve rated this movie relatively generously onlybecause, you know, it’s Halloween and all.