Have we reached an era of journalism in which internetnitpicking and clickbait forces news readers to examine each individual treeinstead of considering the entire forest? It certainly feels that way assoundbites rate higher on Twitter than speeches, and segments ofnews programs feel devoted to salacious details more than presenting the full picture.James Vanderbilt’s effective “Truth” makes the case that this state ofjournalistic being really got underway with the railroading ofMary MapesandDan Rather in 2004, over a “60 Minutes II” story that purported thatthen-president-and-candidate George W. Bush not only dodged service in Vietnam, but didn’t serve his duty on the Texas Air National Guard on which he wasplaced to get out of combat. It was a blockbuster story that literally blew upin the face of the entire news structure at CBS when it was revealed that someof the documents used as evidence were not thoroughly verified. “Truth” makes thecompelling case that no one really asked if the story was true or not, merelyusing the furor over the documents as a way to tear down the rest of the piece.OK, maybe the documents weren’t fully verified, but is the story stilltrue? “Truth” takes a stand that Mapes,Rather and the rest of their team made undeniable mistakes, but were also screwed over by a political and journalistic system that has lost its priorities. Advertisement “60 Minutes” producer Mary Mapes (Cate Blanchett) and thelegendary Dan Rather (Robert Redford) were riding high when they got a tiplinking Bush and the Bin Laden family. They had just won numerous accolades fortheir Abu Ghraib coverage. The tip went nowhere directly, but led to a deeperlook at Bush’s military record, and accusations thatBen Barnes(Philip Quast)had gotten Bush into the Texas Air National Guard. After a deeper investigationthat involves her crack team—played byTopher Grace,Dennis Quaid, andElisabeth Moss—Mapes meets with a man (Stacy Keach) who gives her documentsthat clearly state that Bush barely showed up for his National Guard service,and his superiors were asked to forge his service. Trying to get the storyfirst, “60 Minutes II” cuts some corners in terms of verification. Almost instantly, questions are raised. It looks like a fewof the smoking-gun memos may have been produced in a word processing programand not on a typewriter. Where did they come from? Were they forged? And,perhaps most interestingly, did Mapes’ politics play a role? Would she have runthe piece so quickly if it was damning to Kerry? What first seems like a homerun quickly turns disastrous as Mapes’ superiors (including an always-effectiveBruce Greenwood) turn on their favorite producer, and bring in the lawyers. Thereare even accusations that CBS scapegoated the “60 Minutes” team atthe behest of parent company Viacom, who wanted to appease an administrationkind to corporate giants. It’s not surprising that “Truth” takes the perspective thatit does—you don’t cast Cate Blanchett and Robert Redford as Mapes and Ratherandnotexpect the film to side withthem. To their credit, these two legends ground the characters enough that theyavoid the pedestal onto which Vanderbilt often tries to place them. Blanchett’sMapes is nearly a variation on her award-winning turn in “Blue Jasmine,” asmart, striking woman who senses the world falling apart around her. Meanwhile, Redfordgives the best performance in the film, finding Rather’s gravitas without doingan impersonation. It’s a nuanced portrayal where a lot of other actors wouldhave gone broad or just filled the space really with what people know ofRather. Advertisement When one looks beyond Blanchett and Redford, “Truth” startsto falter. Unlike the superior “Spotlight,” much of the team behind Mapes herefeels like mouthpieces for the screenwriter. Topher Grace gives an impassioned speech that probably didn’t work great on the page but is even more manipulative coming out of Grace’s mouth, and Elisabeth Moss is completelywasted in the role of the question-asking member of the team. There’s a scenein which she asks seven questions in a row that's so blatantlydesigned to explain the narrative that it’s nearly insulting. Quaidis decent, but feels wasted. Again, it’s probably not fair to compare, but “Spotlight”is a film in which every member of the team feels essential, andthat’s disappointingly not the case here. While there are a few too many over-written speeches (Ihalf-expected someone to say “You can’thandle the truth!” and wink at the camera), Blanchett and Redford justify alook at “Truth.” They clearly feel passionately about the material, and that fervor comes through in their work. In the end, “Truth” is not unlike aveteran news program—solidly made, interesting, and worthy of sparkingdiscussion, whether you agree with its political bent or not. It encourages people to start talking about the purpose of journalism, and seeing the greater picture. If it's not too late to do so.