Orson Wellesonce described his approach in “Citizen Kane”as “prismatic,” and while there are many differences in subject and stylebetween that cinema milestone andMichael Almereyda’s “Experimenter,” the twofilms share a multi-faceted formal playfulness and an essential intellectualseriousness that make them similarly bracing, original and thought-provoking.Part of the latter quality comes from their focus on men (one semi-fictional,the other real) who stand at particular junctures of American history and, likeprisms, refract converging elements of our national identity and culture. Advertisement The most pleasingly cerebral of recent American films,“Experimenter” concerns Dr. Stanley Milgram (Peter Sarsgaardin an expertlyshaded and intelligent performance), the creator of certain enduringly famousexperiments in social psychology, which the film starts out by showing us. In apsych lab at Yale University in 1961, Milgram watches from behind a two-waymirror as an associate (John Palladino) escorts two men into a room where heexplains the experiment in which they’ve agreed to participate. One man will becalled “Learner” and will try to memorize answers to standardized tests. Theother man, “Teacher,” will monitor the responses given by Learner (who’s out ofsight) and, when he gives wrong answers, give him a series of increasinglystrong electric shocks. The nominal experiment here is a sham. In reality, Learneris not being shocked; an actor, he plays audiotapes of his voice screaming andprotesting as the shocks supposedly mount in intensity. The one being tested isTeacher. How long will he go on shocking a stranger who’s begging him to stop?An overwhelming majority of people say they would stop well before the shocksreach maximum intensity. As it happened, though, both in Milgram’s originalexperiments and in numerous duplications of them, roughly 65 percent ofsubjects kept applying the shocks till the end; only 35 percent stopped at somepoint before. Temporally, the significance of the Milgram Experiments cutsin every direction. Past: When they were underway, the Israeli trial of Nazigenocide mastermind Adolf Eichmann, who claimed he was only following orders,was on American television. The son of European Jews who escaped the Naziterror, Milgram wanted to know how ordinary people could do things thatviolated their conscious principles. And could it be that folks of othernations – even Americans – would submit just as Germans had? The scandalousbook in which he revealed his findings was titled “Obedience to Authority.” Advertisement Present (1961): In a sense, the Eichmann trial connects theHolocaust to the era of “The Manchurian Candidate,” when Americans were so fearfulof their Communist enemies that they questioned their own psychologicalmake-up, and when an academic-scientific-military complex emerged to deal withsuch concerns. Needless to say, that complex didn’t disappear along with theSoviet Union. Future: As the film shows, when Milgram’s findings becomepublic, they spark widespread interest, with some hailing their importancewhile others denounce the scientist’s methods as unethical and manipulative.Their paradoxical importance continues. During the Vietnam War they are invokedto explain the My Lai massacre. Films of them are still shown to West Pointcadets. Need their relevance to the post-9/11 American penchant for torture,both military and more broadly cultural, be stated? Back to those scenes in the Yale lab. In most movies, nodoubt, we would be kept in doubt about the experiment’s real nature until we’dseen at least one Learner shocked to the breaking point. But Almereyda tossesaway the possibility of suspense and shows us what’s going on from the first.Filmed with a cool, Kubrickian detachment, these scenes align our p.o.v. notwith the experiment’s participants’ but with the scientist’s (and by extension,the filmmaker’s). Rather than conventionally dramatic, the effect is wry,inquisitive, even darkly comic. During this early sequence, Almereydaintercuts scenes of Milgram meeting the dancer (Winona Ryder) who will becomehis wife. These passages announce that “Experimenter” will concern not just thework but also the man. Yet, if this is a biopic, it’s hardly a conventionalone. It seems not at all interested in probing Milgram’spsychology, to wonder why he would undertake this type of work. And, in effect,the film’s wife-and-family parts have a basically negative function in that,rather than explaining anything, simply tell us he was a fairly ordinaryguy. Advertisement So, ultimately, Almereyda’s emphasis falls on his subject’swork and public life. After the famous experiments and the book that followed,Milgram becomes something of a controversial public intellectual, moves toHarvard (then later City University of NY) and concocts other experimentaltests of human behavior, some very interesting but none achieving the notorietyof the earlier ones. As the career unfolds, we become aware of how much theacademic-scientific-military complex intersects with the nation’s imaginationon various pop-cultural fronts. Milgram himself is on television. He engageswith “Candid Camera.” He watches CBS turn his life’s work in a bad TV movie,“The Tenth Level,” starringWilliam ShatnerandOssie Davis. As we see that monstrosity being shot, Milgram muses to thecamera about his chagrin. When he thinks of turning his work into a Broadwaymusical, he bursts into song on a midtown street. All of which points to one ofthe film’s chief delights: its eclectic mix of formal stratagems and narrativemodes. Almereyda has Milgram address the camera frequently, sometimes tellingus of things that haven’t yet happened. He uses rear-screen projection (whichserves various purposes, including evoking a bygone cinematic era), varioussurrealistic touches and all manner of distancing devices.  His tone veers from serious to satiric towacky to contemplative and back to serious, sometimes within a single scene. The thread that unifies all this, one might venture, has todo with the issue of free will. The upside of Milgram’s experiments (as one ofhis mentors attempts to point out) was to show that at least a significantminority of peoplecanresistunwarranted social controls. What about trying to construct an educationalsystem and a society that grow that number? Likewise, though many people loveto be manipulated by movies, how about asserting the value of works like“Experimenter,” which, in keeping the emotional temperature low and presentingus with a collage of evidence on related subjects, allows us the interpretivefreedom to construct its meanings for ourselves? Advertisement No doubt, that kind of freedom is only offered us by acertain type of artist, of which Almeredya is a prime and invaluable example.From early in his career, it was clearly that he was an unusually gifteddirector, yet rather than allowing himself to be sucked into the mainstreammoviemaking system, he has deliberately stayed on the intelligent margins,making a range of films from docs to shorts to modern Shakespeare adaptationsto works that deserve the designation experimental. In so doing, he has allowedhimself a creative freedom that suffuses his latest like a constant stream ofmountain air. “Experimenter,” he might say, “c’est moi.”