After abrief detour to pick up the Best Director award at Cannes earlier this year,"The Assassin," the eagerly awaited historical martial arts epic fromrenowned Chinese filmmaker Hou Hsiao-Hsien, has finally arrived on our shoresand it is indeed a curious experience. The story is told in such an enigmaticmanner that even with the voluminous notes that I took during the screening, Iremain somewhat confused by certain plot points. On the other hand,conventional and easy-to-follow narratives can be found anywhere, but very fewof them occur in films that are as visually ravishing and formally graceful aswhat Hou has cooked up here. Advertisement Set inninth-century China during a time of unrest that would eventually lead to thedecline of the Tand Dynasty, "The Assassin" tells the story of NieYinniang (Shu Qui), who was kidnapped by her family when she was only 10 byJiaxin (Sheu Fang-yi), a nun who trained her to become a brutally efficientassassin specializing in killing corrupt government officials. As the storybegins, she demonstrates her abilities by killing her target—a man on horseback—with such lethal precisionthat it takes both her victim and viewers of the film a few moments to registerthat the deed has been done. Alas, Yinniang is not quite as ruthless as sheseems to be, and when she confronts her next target and finds his young son inthe room with him, she finds that she is unable to do the deed and lets himlive. This actof mercy sends Jiaxin into a rage, and she devises a plan that she believeswill force Yinniang to do her duty and divest her of the sympathy thatcaused her to fail her previous mission. Yinniang is sent to Weibo, thelargest province and one where the Imperial Court is currently of an unstablenature, to kill the governor, Lord Tian Ji'an (Chang Chen), and plunge theregion into chaos. This is a bit tricky for Yinniang because not only is LordTian her cousin, it is revealed that before her disappearance, she was supposedto one day marry him in a union that would have helped bring lasting peacebetween the region and his court. Of course, Yinniang cannot bring herself tokill Lord Tian, though she does perform a series of brief ambushes designed toalert him to her presence. At the same time, Lord Tian dismisses his right-handman, Xia Jing (Juan Ching-tian) from the court because of his outspoken natureand it is Xia's reaction to this that turns out to be the spark that incitesthe battles to come. Insteadof rushing through the plot-oriented material in order to get to the action,Hou allows the story to reveal itself in a deliberately slow and occasionallydigressive manner that prefers having characters recount their stories directly, rather than streamlining the plot threads with flashbacks and other tricks. For those notused to this manner of storytelling, especially in the context of what issupposed to be a martial arts narrative, "The Assassin" may prove tobe bewildering. That said, it should be stressed that the story is confusingbut not confused, and my guess is that it will make a lot more sense upon asecond viewing. Advertisement And formany of those who see "The Assassin," a second viewing will probablybe in the cards as other aspects of the film are simple stunning to behold.Shooting in glorious 35mm, Hou and cinematographer Mark Lee Ping Bing have comeup with the most stylistically fascinating and visually striking work of theirnumerous collaborations—there is not a singleuninteresting shot that I can recall and many are so beautiful that one looksat them as they might observe a painting in a museum. The fight scenes havebeen devised in a way so that they are drained of all lurid excess in order toaccentuate that participating in such violence is merely a job for Yinniang, andnot something that she derives any pleasure from—thatsaid, the combat staging is still so expertly done despite the lack oftricked-up editing or flashy camera moves that it stands as a silent rebuke toall the noisy and messy dust-ups in most contemporary blockbusters. Besides, a film does not need such visualfripperies when it has a presence as magnetic as Shu Qui at its center. In herthird collaboration with Hou, she is never less than absolutely mesmerizing,adding immeasurably to the dramatic heft of the story. Moviegoersattending "The Assassin" in the hopes of seeing another auteur-drivenmartial arts epic along the lines of "Crouching Tiger, HiddenDragon," "House of Flying Shadows" or "TheGrandmaster" are likely to come away from it feeling a little disappointed—those who dig the genre because of the bloodshed will beappalled to discover that it is practically gore-free. However, if they are at the film because they want to be transported to another time and place by aworld-class filmmaker working at the peak of his powers, they're likely tofind themselves as enraptured as I was by what Hou has come up with this timearound.