Steven Spielberg's “Bridge of Spies” opens with a shot ofa man looking in a mirror as he paints a nearly-complete self-portrait. The manis shot from behind. We are not really seeing “him.” We are looking at tworeflections, one in glass and one in watercolors. The truth is in the middle.This duality of perception vs. reality and, eventually, the concept of those threetriangular points of interest (reflection, man, painting)—which look similarbut aren’t quite—will resurface in “Bridge of Spies,” a daring, studied,mannered true story that is at once remarkably genuine and deeply cinematic atthe same time. It’s one of the best films of the year. Advertisement As he has done at least a dozen times before, Spielberg captures the arc of a man who is caught up in something bigger thanhimself and somehow rises to the occasion. The “Man Under Pressure” this timeis Jim Donovan (Tom Hanks), an insurance lawyer called into duty by hisgovernment when the aforementioned painter, a man named Rudolph Abel (MarkRylance), is captured for the crime of espionage against the United States onbehalf of the USSR. It is 1957, and the Cold War is a constant concern.Adults still discuss the Rosenbergs around the dinner table while Jim’schildren learn about how easily they’ll survive nuclear fallout if they justduck and cover or fill their bathtubs with drinking water. Donovan is asked toserve as Abel’s defense attorney by his boss (Alan Alda), who just wantsDonovan to be a warm body—someone to sit next to the traitor to make sure thejudicial process runs appropriately. One gets the impression—ably assisted by Hanks’ steely-eyeddetermination, which recalls the movie icons of cinema's golden age—thatDonovan has never just been a cog in a machine. And so he actually tries tomount a defense for Abel, arguing that the seizure of evidence wasunconstitutional and making the case that the death penalty would be apolitically bad move, even if the public desperately wants to see Abelhanged. Donovan argues that Abel not only represents valuable political currency,which could come in handy if the US ever needs to negotiate with the Russians,but also that Abel should be treated as we would want any American POW to treatedin turn. If you think about it, Abel was just doing a job, right? He’s not atraitor to his country. Isn’t it the same job our men are doing around theworld? Does that deserve the death penalty? What message would that sendregarding the treatment of our captured men around the world? Of course, Donovan is right, and the international picturegets more complicated when a pilot named Francis Gary Powers (Austin Stowell)is captured by the Russians. Despite having no real experience inespionage—which is good because he can’t be seen as a spy, or even arepresentative of the U.S. Government—Donovan is sent in to mediate theexchange. Once again, Donovan has difficulty doing the bare minimum. Inthe tradition of the typical Spielberg protagonist, Donovan is a man whodoesn’t only do what’s asked of him, he does more. In Spielberg’s vision of theworld, this is essential to the image of not only great men, but also to the ideabehind the United States—in theory, our leaders don’t simply do what’snecessary, they do what others tell them is impossible. Spielberg’s historicalepics have always tended to this examination of overreaching greatness, fromOskar Schindler to Abraham Lincoln. Advertisement From the very first scene, which is executed with minimal sound design andno score, Spielberg and his technical team work almost like Abel’spainting—focused, deliberate and remarkably quiet. (There’s no score for27 minutes, until Donovan is followed in the rain, facing his first realizationthat this spy game is getting dangerous, andThomas Newman’s effective work isused sparingly from there.) To a degree that might be off-putting for somebrought in by the advertisements that make “Bridge of Spies” look like anaction film, this is a movie of dialogue and design, more “Tinker TailorSoldier Spy” than “Skyfall.” It’s a film that builds tension throughconversation, as Donovan discovers that the world of espionage is really aboutdeal-making and subterfuge. “We need tohave the conversation that our governments can’t,” an important player says. Thiscareful approach easily could have been “sexed up” into more of a traditionalspy thriller, but instead Spielberg chose to walk a delicate thematic tightrope—toostudied and the film becomes dull; too cinematic and it loses its realism. To say that Spielberg negotiates that tightrope as deftly asPhilippe Petitwould be an understatement. You could take any scene from“Bridge of Spies” and examine it on two distinct but intertwined levels.First, look at the breathtaking attention to detail—the costume design, thesets—and realize how lived-in it all seems. Even the Donovan home (Amy Ryanplays the concerned wife in a slightly underwritten role) looks remarkably genuine.This film does not fall into the typical period piece trap where it feels morelike modern actors playing dress-up than an actual glimpse at history. Andyet Spielberg and his team find channels for cinematic vision within thatrealism. Look at the color palette distinguishing the United States fromGermany. When Donovan gets to Europe, everything is washed in blue and gray.Even East Germany has a different color scheme than West, washed out by theongoing building of the Berlin Wall. Every decision in “Bridge of Spies” feelscarefully considered, informing both the realism of the piece and its deeplycinematic purpose. That purpose is embodied in one of the best performances ofTom Hanks’ career. It’s a turn that is easy to take for granted atfirst. Hanks’ reputation as cinema’s everyman is sometimes too broadly defined. Yes, he rose to fame by finding something inherent in the average man, but he’salso often the smartest and most morally upstanding man in the room. LikeHenry Fonda, he isn’t just an everyman—he’s the BEST of the everymen.This role takes that element of the Hanks persona and puts it at the heart ofthe Cold War and even American foreign policy. Why was America the best countryin the world after World War II? Because we had men like Jim Donovan. And yetHanks doesn’t overplay that heroism, finding the perfect balancebetween extraordinary and ordinary person. Spielberg and company even giveDonovan a coughing, sneezing cold in the final act, highlighting that thisflesh-and-blood man is far from 007. Advertisement Hanks is well supported by an equally-great turn fromRylance. The wonderful actor understands what Abel and Donovan see ineach other—they are both men following orders. They are both men who refuse totake the easy way out. And they are both men who can see the bigger pictureeasier than most, knowing that it is the portrait that subsists, not the realman. It is the image, the record, the interpretation that goes in the historybooks. At this point, it would be easy to go on to praise MattCharman and Joel &Ethan Coen’s striking script or examine JanuszKaminski’s color choices andMichael Kahn’s razor-sharp editing, but we’veprobably already surpassed praise overload. Suffice to say, every technicalchoice feels like the right one. There are a few moments in the mid-section ofthe film that feel a bit repetitive—a few too many “will Jim do the rightthing?” conversations, when we know damn well he will—but it’s a minorcomplaint, especially when the film gets to Europe, the pace picks up again,and it never looks back. Since Steven Spielberg began making films in the 1970s, he’sbecome one of our most essential cinematic historians. He’s often characterizedas a director of the fantastic, and films like “Jurassic Park” and “A.I.Artificial Intelligence” certainly bolster this viewpoint, but it is hisability to distill world events into relatable, human stories in films like“Munich,” “Schindler’s List,” “Saving Private Ryan,” “Lincoln,” and many morethat has arguably been underrated throughout his long and varied career.“Bridge of Spies” continues that tradition, in the best possible way.