Laurie Anderson’s “Heart of a Dog” is a meditation on loveand loss that refreshingly doesn’t come to hard-and-fast conclusions about each, so much as opine that perhaps we’re focusing on them in the wrong way. Thepoetic, visual essay opens up (at least to me) when Anderson, who hasfaced the deaths of her husbandLou Reedand her beloved rat terrier Lolabellein recent years, notes that our discussion and obsession with death oftenfocuses on the living more than the deceased and that it is our memories and the journey-after-death that are ignored. Advertisement Before this observation, Andersonhas playfully crafted a piece consisting solely of her narration andinterpretable visuals like rain on a windshield or a snowy road (and a few home movies). She alsocaptures a sense of life's unpredictability, often notinghow the world has changed after 9/11, mostly in the way we are now always undersurveillance. We are heavily documenting life, but it is a life that can’t be scriptedor known. Something as universally Earth-shattering as 9/11 or as personallydevastating as the loss of a dog could be a part of any given day. And yet “Heartof a Dog” is not a dirge. It is not a film made by someone who has goneunderground to avoid the recent tragedies of her life. On the contrary, it accepts life’s twists and turns and embraces the fact that theseunexpected detours on life’s journey are unavoidable. There are times whenAnderson’s Buddhist leanings can be a bit overwhelming, and the piece ends abit too abruptly for my tastes, although that almost seems thematicallyappropriate. For her first film in 30 years, famous NYC performanceartist Laurie Anderson weaves very personal stories, commenting on life inher favorite metropolis in a post-9/11 world, and Buddhist philosophy about thejourney that we take after we die. Much of it is focused on Lolabelle, a ratterrier whom Anderson clearly adored. Early in “Heart of a Dog,” Andersonconveys a story of getting out of the city after 9/11 and going on a naturewalk with Lolabelle, only to be the target of a hawk who thought the dogpotential prey. The idea that we can be someplace warm, comfortable andhappy only to have danger literally fall from the sky is an obvious parallel tounexpected tragedy (especially one that also featured airborne enemies). However, and this is to her credit, Anderson rarely lingers on such thematic purposes for long. She’s also fascinated bycommunication not just between people but between humans and animals, and evento the great beyond. She shows footage of Lolabelle “playing piano” andrecounts a story of a friend dying and the theory that the ears are the lastthing to go—so make sure to yell instructions on how to get to the other side.How do we relate to our pets? How do we relate to the dying and the dead?Anderson’s most poignant stories in “Heart of a Dog” center on her mother, about whom Anderson can’t relate a positive memory but she keeps returningto her passing, clearly a crucial moment in her life. Advertisement Perhaps what’s most remarkable about “Heart of a Dog” isthat it’s able to be about many things to many people while also not lacking inan ounce of confidence or focus at the same time. In numerous ways, it’s structuredlike a dog’s journey through life, sniffing around at what interests it in themoment. And yet that’s not to suggest it’s unfocused (although I think some willbe frustrated by Anderson’s more ruminative moments). “Heart of a Dog” is adeeply reflective film, a piece that suggests that death is about a “release oflove” more than anything else. It is not something to obsess about or wallowin. Anderson argues that we (even the dead) keep going after tragedy, and soher film becomes not a wake but a celebration, a call to people for acceptanceof moments big and small, predictable and unexpected. In that sense, it is oneof the most invigorating and alive films of the year.