In a film conceived as a companion piece to his acclaimed“Nostalgia for the Light,” veteran Chilean documentarianPatricio Guzmánshiftshis attention from his native land’s deserts to the seas that line itsspectacularly long coast. For most of its 80-minute length, “The Pearl Button”meditates lyrically on water and its effects on humankind. Then it makes asharp turn into evoking the horrors of the Pinochet regime, a transition thatfeels awkward and rather forced, diluting the film’s ultimate impact. Advertisement At its outset, Guzmán gives his film a cosmic frame thatmight remind some viewers ofTerrence Malick’s “Tree of Life.” Watching gianttelescopes that observe the universe from a Chilean desert, the filmmaker, whonarrates throughout, notes that water originated in the stars and came to Earthalmost as a gift. Now covering most of the planet’s surface, the element isindispensable to human life and perhaps nowhere more visibly important than inChile, with its 2,600-mile coastline. Though bearing some of the soothing grandeur of a standardnature documentary, the early sections of “The Pearl Button,” as they descendfrom the heavens to the seas, are gorgeously filmed and ably support Guzman’spoetic words. The film also evidences some pleasing visual wit. Indiscussing Chile’s unusual geography, Guzmán shows students unrolling a largepapier-mâché map of the country on a studio floor. Though its width isn’tgreat, length-wise it goes on and on and on. Guzmán makes the point that it’shard to conceive of Chile as a whole, due to its unusual shape, which is whypeople often think of it in three parts: north, center and south. Despite its bounteous connection to the Pacific Ocean,though, Chile has never been known as a great seafaring nation. Its Europeansettlers looked inward, toward the land, rather than to its watery western horizon.In doing so, they both ignored and brutally effaced the traditions of theirindigenous predecessors, who cultivated a multi-faceted relationship with thewater, especially in the southern Patagonia region. Guzmán’s account of Chile’s native people reestablishes thelink between the stars and water. He uses old footage and photos that show men,women and children—who belonged to tribes that would make long sea voyagesbetween islands—wearing only speckles of white paint that look for all theworld like star maps. Hauntingly beautiful, these images lead into a discussion ofhow the European colonizers subjugated the native peoples, which was horrificindeed: “Indian-hunting” was a remunerative sport, in which different amountswere paid for various body parts. The invaders made every effortto rid the natives of their culture, including their connection to the sea. Advertisement This is exemplified in a tale about an indigenous teen, whichgives the film its title. A British sea captain bought the boy for a pearlbutton, then took him to England and introduced him to European dress and ways.After returning to Chile, Jemmy Button, as he became known, rid himself of hisforeign clothes and haircut, but was never, according to Guzmán, able to regainhis original identity. When the filmmaker takes up the subject of modern Chile’sgreat political horror, the connection to the sea may strike viewers as rathercontrived, but there is one. Following the US-backed 1973 military coup thatoverthrew socialist president Salvador Allende, thousands of the new rightistregime’s opponent’s “disappeared,” i.e., were abducted, tortured and killed invarious ways, some of which Guzmán gruesomely details. In recent years, it hasbecome known that many were flown out to sea and dumped, alive or dead, intothe ocean. It's grisly stuff, but the real problem is that it seemsto belong in another movie. Discussing these events, Guzmán’s voice retains itselegiac tone while also growing subtly hectoring, making points that would bebetter shared in a more fitting context. No doubt many Chileans remainunderstandably obsessed with the terrible crimes of the Pinochet regime, butthat doesn’t mean they have be rehashed at every possible cinematicopportunity. In this case, the subject seems to undercut—rather than augment—Guzmán’s thoughtful exploration of Chile’s connection to the sea.