Raúl García’s “Extraordinary Tales” is an animated anthologyfilm ofEdgar Allan Poestories narrated by luminaries likeChristopher Lee,GuillermoDel Toroand evenBela Lugosihimself (using old audio footage). Tobe blunt, it’s kind of difficult to mess that up too much. Christopher Leereading Edgar Allan Poe? Sign me up. Both the source material and the manreading it are legendary. And that inherent cool factor in “Extraordinary Tales”carries the final product a very long way, although its shortcomings dosometimes force me to wonder if it could have been a masterpiece instead of amere curiosity. As is, a few decisions made by García in the filmmaking processhold “Extraordinary Tales” back from its true potential, although if itintroduces filmgoers to the works of Poe (or Lee or Lugosi, for that matter),it’s done some good. Advertisement García and his team animate each short film in verydifferent styles, coming back to a wraparound conversation between a raven anda statue in a cemetery between shorts. It starts with the amazing “The Fall ofthe House of Usher,” read by Christopher Lee. The animation is surprisinglyflat, looking often like a last-generation video game with too much CGI, whenhand-drawn would have given this atmospheric piece more punch. However, it’seasy to appreciate the budgetary freedom that animation gives García with “Usher," asthe house falls apart in a way that would have cost a studio $80 million wereit live-action. In many ways, the second short story chosen is Poe’s mostpopular and the most interestingly conceived within “Extraordinary Tales.” Ahighly-truncated (they all are, and sometimes frustratingly so) version of “TheTell-Tale Heart” is told by a scratchy audio of the one-and-only Bela Lugosi,accompanied by starkly vivid animation in sharp blacks and blinding whites that’smeant to invoke famous comic artist Alberto Breccia. As a standalone piece,despite the edits to the source, this is a fascinating bit of cinema in that it captures influences from around the world, bringing Lugosi, Poe, and Brecciaunder one twisted tent. “The Facts in the Case of M. Valdemar” (narrated by JulianSands), “The Pit and the Pendulum” (narrated byGuillermo Del Toro) and “TheMasque of Red Death” aren’t as effective, especially the final one, which maybe the strongest visually but eschews all narration and has almost no dialogueto tell this tale only with images. I’m not sure taking away the film’sgreatest asset—Poe’s way with words—was the smartest way to end the piece. And that’s a feeling I had a few too many times in “ExtraordinaryTales”—wondering why García made a certain visual choice, or why he cut acertain part of Poe’s stories while focusing on another (the whole thing onlyruns 73 minutes, when it would have benefitted by being twice as long andletting Poe’s brilliance linger before jumping on to the next piece). Again,Poe’s storytelling gift is so timeless, and the voice actors assembled socaptivating, that “Extraordinary Tales” can’t help but work on some level. Itjust never quite rises above that faint praise. Advertisement