“Stony Island” is an easy-going, cheerful city movie about abunch of kids who start a rock band -- and since the city is Chicago, there's afamiliar feel. That's to say that everybody takes the L everywhere, and it'scold and gray and the puddles in the back yards are frozen over, and there's anincredible amount of energy. Theenergy, I gather, came in large part from the performers themselves. The movieis more or less based on fact; the director and co-writer,Andy Davis, has abrother who was the last white kid in the block down on Stony Island, andactually was involved in a band something like the one in the movie. Advertisement Thefilm has a loose, not to say nonchalant, story structure, but I didn't findthat troublesome; it's put together something like a concert, and it has almostwall-to-wall music, played by the Stoney Island Band itself in the midst of astory about how they get together, recruit members, and enlist a veteran jazzmusician to lead them. Themusician’s played byGene Barge, a producer and arranger in real life, and hisperformance is relaxed and convincing: We sense he knows what he's talkingabout when he works with the kids - and he can certainly play the saxophone.The other key band members includeEdward Stoney Robinsonas the charismaticlead singer;Richard Davison lead guitar, andGeorge Englundas theAppalachian from Uptown who's literally recruited on an L train. Strange,but “Stony Island” somehow revolves around funeral motifs. The band practicesin the parking garage of the funeral home where Barge works, and there are twofunerals in the film: The Barge character's… and Mayor Daley's. The filmmakersshot outside the Daley services (and were mistaken, no doubt, for a TV or newsreelcrew), and then shot a scene afterwards in a Bridgeport bar where the patronsperform a teary “Danny Boy.” Barge's funeral includes black spirituals; thefilmmakers seem to be contrasting kinds of ethnic music in Chicago. Theyalso have some sly fun with the whole business of funerals and bodies andmorgues; after the skinflint funeral home owner tells them they can't practicein his garage anymore, he unexpectedly drops dead. Then Barge dies - and nobodycan afford his funeral expenses. The solution is simplicity itself, involving aslick transfer of bodies at the morgue, so that Barge winds up with theinnerspring deluxe model casket. Creepy,but handled with a nice light touch. The movie captures a city spirit, with acertain refreshing cynicism. After Barge dies, for example, his oldest friendfrom New Orleans (Ronnie Barron) comes north for the funeral and observes,succinctly, “Chicago's a great city… if you want a pizza.” Advertisement Whatthey also convey is that making the movie was itself a happening: The StoneyIsland Band was created for the movie, there are a lot of scenes that parallelits actual beginnings and rehearsals and concerts, and now that the movie's outthere's also a sound track album and the band is picking up concert dates. Whatdoes that make the movie? A fictionalized documentary? Reality nudged byfiction? Alittle of that, and then a little unabashed sentiment, too, as when the bandplays its first concert and the ghostly figure of the deceased saxophonist canbe seen outlined in a doorway, playing along.