Alexandra Shiva’s “How to Dance in Ohio,” premiering Mondaynight on HBO after a successful festival run, is a tender, compassionate look atthree young women living life on the autism spectrum. In many ways, it’s astellar example of what Roger spoke about when he discussed film as an empathymachine, offering insight into lives we may not fully understand. It’s a bit shapeless in terms of filmmaking, but this is a “characterdocumentary,” a study of people that you won’t soon forget, and it works on that level. Advertisement “How to Dance in Ohio” observes different sessions at Amigo Family Counseling, a center for children, teensand adults with autism. Dr. Emilio Amigo gently motivates his patients withchallenges designed to show them that their limitations are not as defined asthey may think they are. Amigo’s approach can be inspirational far beyond thatof his patients, adopting a style that could be best summed up when he says, “They will believe they can succeed when theysucceed.” He doesn’t coddle his patients, but instead sets up challengesthat he knows they can surpass. Shiva’s whole film works off Amigo’s balance ofempowerment and safety. People with autism often fear for their own security, andAmigo teaches them that they can be happy, highly functioning and not beafraid. We can all take something away from when he says, “Let’s give it up for butterflies! That means you’re alive!” Shiva's film chroniclesthe three months leading up to an Amigo Family Counseling Formal Dance. Yes,his patients will have to get dressed up, interact, slow dance and even linedance. If you think about it, a formal dance is a series of socialinteractions, whether they’re dancing in a group with others, asking someoneyou like to cut a rug, or even just socializing around the punch bowl. Asexpected, most of Amigo’s patients are fearful, but they work towards the bigday, wondering who to ask as their date and even going dress-shopping. In particular, Shiva focuses on three women—a 16-year-old named Marideth, a19-year-old named Caroline and a 22-year-old named Jessica. Labels likeautistic often paint with a broad brush for people who hear them; onelesson to be learned by “Ohio” is the notable differences between these threeyoung ladies. Marideth seems to just be coming out of her shell. Her parentsnote that they only get two minutes of conversation, but that’s two minutesmore than they used to get. She’s unpredictable in her degree of confidence,telling Shiva that she likes to research and then shutting down when asked what she likes to research. Caroline has a boyfriend she met in Amigo’s class, andshe’s going to other classes, but is nervous about taking the bus to get there.Jessica gets the most screen time, and she’s close to being completelyindependent, even working a bakery, although she sometimes struggles withco-workers. Advertisement How will I know what to say to someone when they talk to me?How will I know if someone is joking? What do I say when I’m nervous? Most peoplewith autism can’t inherently and instinctually respond to social cues like youor me. And “How to Dance in Ohio” deftly captures that aspect of the condition.We see Marideth, Caroline and Jessica taking small steps forward, although thefilm is careful not to present their condition as something that needs a cure.It’s just a fact of their lives, something they use Dr. Amigo’s class tomanage. The best elements of “How to Dance in Ohio” don’t feel like adisease-of-the-week documentary—on the contrary, they illuminate thecommonality we’ve all faced at a difficult job or nerve-inducing formal dance.We’ve all felt those butterflies. And that means we’re alive.