"Nasty Baby" introduces us to a trio ofsympathetic characters. We come to understand their motives, hopes and fears,find ourselves rooting for them to overcome those doubts in order to achievethose dreams, and grow to really like them. Then,thathappens. The "that" is a third-act move that is sure tobe divisive. One could see it as a twisted-knife culmination of the motivationsand less-than-admirable qualities of these characters, or one could see it as abetrayal of the audience's trust. It's both, really, and above whatever desireone might have to qualify the film's climax as either a logical conclusion or anact of cheating, it is a daring, radical shift in tone and intention thatgenuinely shocks. Advertisement Writer/directorSebastián Silvadoesn't cheat in terms ofstorytelling, though. Throughout the film, he sets up these characters, and us, for what happens. We suspect something could go wrong, but Silvadistracts us with the sweet, charming story of three people trying to findhappiness under tough circumstances. Since we want these characters to be happy, Silvaessentially makes us accomplices to what unfolds late in the film, because,even under the specific conditions of the climax, happiness is theultimate goal. That's especially true when it is so, so close to beingachieved, and that's the point at which Silva forces these characters to decide,once and for all, which way it's going to go. In the process, he challenges usto say with certainty that we would behave any better under similarcircumstances and with that much at stake. One can hope. The stakes that become so vital in the third act are justromantic concepts for these characters at the start, and they treat them with uncertainty.Freddy (Silva, whose appearance as one of the central characters furtherconvinces us of the film's claim to be "based on a true story"—up toa point, of course) and his boyfriend Mo (Tunde Adebimpe) live together in aNew York City apartment. They have decided to become parents. Freddy's bestfriend Polly (Kristen Wiig), who also wants to have a baby, will be thesurrogate mother and have a role in raising the child. Freddy is an artist. He's currently preparing a videopiece, featuring him acting like a baby, in order to assuage his guilt over whathe sees as a selfish act—wanting a child of his own when there are so manychildren who could be adopted. Still, he desperately wants to be a father, andlate in the night, he stares at his phone, looking at photos of himself as achild and imagining what his own child might look like. If Freddy's desire tohave a child is selfish, then surely his desire to publicize his guilt is aform of self-indulgence. There's no avoiding that this emotional entitlementplays a significant role in what comes to pass. Advertisement Freddy has a low sperm count, though, so he must convinceMo to donate his own sperm. Mo is hesitant, and it seems like a lostcause. Meanwhile, a new resident on the block, who calls himself "TheBishop" (Reg E. Cathey), has been making life miserable with his habit ofusing a leaf-blower in the early morning hours, as well as some other, lessinnocent behavior. Silva's screenplay has a slice-of-life feel; SergioArmstrong's cinematography provides the natural lighting and handheld camerawork that adds tothat sensation. Not much happens here in terms of actual plot points, butthese day-to-day observations of the trio's activities give us a good feeling forthese characters and their slowly solidifying relationship. Part of Mo's hesitation is that he still considers Pollyto be Freddy's friend—not so much his. There's a natural rapport between theold friends, and Mo's shift toward seeing Polly in a different way begins witha passing observation—Mo watches the kindness with which Polly treats a physically abused woman who comes into the clinic where Polly works. Mo is a calming agent for Freddy, who has angermanagement problems, and Adebimpe's performance has a similar effect upon thefilm. He's a sturdy presence, balancing Polly's continual disappointment at thefailure to conceive and Freddy's frustrated indecisiveness. Wiig and Silva aresolid, too, as both actors convey a genuine sense of longing for a dream thatis constantly deferred. The culmination of the threesome's new normal arrives ina surprisingly tender scene that immediately follows a tense dinner with Mo'sfamily—some of whom still have some qualms about Mo's life. This delicate scene portrayswhat is essentially a medical procedure, but Silva imbues it with a sense ofintimacy through simple framing (Polly's face shares half of the frame in theforeground, as Freddy and Mo do their part for the procedure in the other half).The actors play it without a trace of discomfort. Advertisement It's worth noting, by the way, that the character whoeases the tension in the earlier scene at the dinner table is the one we leastsuspect. Details such as that one are key to the impact of the film's climax.Silva repeatedly sets up some kind of barrier or stumbling block for thesecharacters, only to resolve it with humor (Freddy's failure at an art galleryresults in a moment of utter absurdity) or an optimistic view of humanity. The method is so effective that we expect a similarresult once those climactic events begin. Surely there will be some out forthese characters. Surely it won't go as far as we fear. Surely goodness willprevail somehow. Surely happiness shouldn't come at such a cost. Whether welike it or not, "Nasty Baby" is defiant in how it doesn't swayfrom these ultimate acts of selfishness.