Theoriginal "Paranormal Activity" was an ultra-cheap spook show that managed to attract huge audiences that were luredin by its low-fi aesthetic, and the central gimmick of being presented as acollection of home videos made by an ordinary couple hoping to capture evidenceof a supernatural entity. Of course, the problem with making a filmbased around a gimmick is that it only really works that first time and if afollow-up is in the cards, and the astronomical grosses made that all butinevitable, the filmmakers would have to do one of two things—either offer viewers something new and different and riskalienating them (as was the case with "Book of Shadows," thereasonably ambitious, though deeply flawed continuation of "The BlairWitch Project") or just give them the same thing with only minorvariations to the formula for as long as they are willing to pay to see them. Advertisement In a moveeven less surprising than anything on display in the films themselves, thepeople behind the "PA" films chose the second path, and over the nextfew years, they essentially gave viewers the same ghostly claptrap over andover with only a couple of minor tweaks to the formula that have so farincluded a straightforward (sort-of) sequel, a retro-themed prequel set in the '80s, a version centering on hip teenagers with their smartphones and theircomplicated pants and a spinoff aimed at Hispanic audiences. Now comes the latest installment, "Paranormal Activity:The Ghost Dimension," and the sixth time is not the charm with this loadof hooey that tries to make up for its lack of legitimate scares or basicnarrative clarity by adding the alleged miracle of 3-D into the mix. Ourpotential victims this time around are the Fleeges—dad Ryan (Chris J. Murray), mom Emily (Brit Shaw), theiradorable moppet Leila (Ivy George)—who have just moved into a newhome so vast and expansive that the lateAaron Spellingmight have deemed it tobe a little ostentatious, though the extra space does allow for the presence ofhis doofus brother Mike (Dan Gill) and her New-Age sister Skyler (OliviaTaylor Dudley). One day, Mike stumbles across a box containing a bunch of videotapes and an ancient video camera approximately the size of a Buick. Naturally,Ryan is ridiculously fascinated with the camera (so much so that he never seemsto have to go to work or anything), especially once he discovers that it hasbeen custom-built to allow people to see weird apparitions. Cue the usual arrayof strange noises and things popping up in front of the camera as the demonknown as Toby takes up residence in the house, and tries to lure Leila to hisside as part of its diabolical plan to assume human form and take over theworld. The wholeenterprise is, of course, irredeemably idiotic in every possible way. Even bythe standards of the genre, the characters here are moronic beyond belief—they have a number of cameras strewn around the house tocapture all of the nocturnal activities but evidently never bother to watch anyof the footage and seem oddly insistent on leaving Leila to sleep alone longafter it has been established that some supernatural deity is pursuing her. Thescreenplay is so lazy in its construction that exposition is covered in rushedbits of dialogue that come out of nowhere ("What if the witches are usingthem in some sort of ritual to give Toby a human body?") and there areactually several scenes that consist entirely of the characters watchingfootage from the earlier entries in the series in a gambit that reminded me ofone of the more inspired jokes from "Spaceballs." The scare scenesare the same as in all the previous films—long static scenes of emptyrooms that are eventually punctuated by something jumping in front of orgetting yanked away from the camera. As for the finale, it is so weak that eventhose that have actually liked the series will be annoyed with the weak sauce conclusion on display, especially in the way that it utterly fails to deal with acertain character who was of great importance in the other films but who isalmost completely overlooked here. Advertisement Thenthere is what must be one of the sorriest deployments of the dubious miracle of3-D that I can readily recall. Remember that camera that shows the weirdapparitions? Well, whenever we are supposedly seeing things from theperspective of that contraption, the image goes into 3-D as ectoplasmic entrailsand other random items are hurled before the camera. First of all, the formatis never used here as anything other than a tired gimmick that adds nothing tothe story but three extra bucks to the ticket price. A bigger problem is thatthe presentation is scary only on aesthetic grounds—between the natural murkiness inherent with the process,the attempt to recreate the sometimes smeary look of early-90s VHS technology, and the fact that all of these sequences take place at night with minimumlighting at best, there are long stretches of time when the onscreen resultsare almost literally unwatchable. There isactually a second gimmick at play in "Paranormal Activity: The GhostDimension" in addition to the 3-D that will be familiar to most seasonedgenre buffs. Perhaps sensing a waning in the appeal of the series over the lastcouple of installments, the producers are insisting that this is going to bethe absolute, honest-to-goodness finale to the series and that wild horsescould not convince them to do another one in the future. Considering the lackof any real resolution, especially in regards to that one character I hinted atearlier, my guess is that if this does well enough at the box office, thatpromise will fall away as quickly as it did when the producers of the"Friday the 13th" and "Nightmare on Elm St." franchisesmade similar claims back in the day. If a new one does come along in due time,the producers will need a new addition to the formula in order to differentiateit from its predecessors. I say make the next one a musical—that alone should make it scarier than the other films intotal.