For aboutas long as zombie movies have been a part of the cultural firmament, peoplehave also produced films that have attempted to explore the lighter and funnierside of the deceased returning from the grave, and their single-minded desire tochow down on the brains of the living. In this regard, I think we can all agreeon two things. The first is that if we were to compose a list of the bestzombie comedies ever made, it would certainly include such titles as GeorgeRomero's scathingly satirical "Dawn of the Dead" (1979), the punkrock cult favorite "Return of the Living Dead" (1985), the GrandGuignol classic "Re-Animator" (1985), the much-beloved British entry"Shaun of the Dead" (2004) and "Zombieland" (2009), thecheerfully goofy romp that featuredBill Murrayin one of his funniest unexpected cameo appearances that he has delivered over the years.The second is that there is no need to make any room on that list for"Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse," a deeply irritatinghorror-comedy that might have worked as a "Funny or Die" short but is pretty much DOA as a feature-length concern. Advertisement Eversince they were young, three lifelong friends—niceguy Ben (Tye Sheridan), obnoxious horndog Carter (Logan Miller) andsweet-natured doofus Augie (Joey Morgan) have been Scouts (not Boy Scouts, as Iam sure the Boy Scouts would like you to know) under the tutelage of Scout LeaderRogers (David Koechner). However, the three are approaching their junior yearof high school and their attitudes towards scouting have shifted a bit—Augie is still a true believer, Carter finds itembarrassing and wants to quit while Ben is torn between his loyalty towardsAugie and his desire to impress Carter's hottie sister, Kendall (thewonderfully namedHalston Sage). When Ben and Carter are unexpectedly invitedto the big secret senior party happening on the same night as anall-important camp-out in the woods, the two plot (reluctantly on Ben's part) tosneak away after Augie and Scout Leader Rogers fall asleep to hit the party andstick with the plan even when the latter never shows. Of course, Augie catchesthem and runs off crestfallen at the betrayal. Oh yeah—the zombies. It seems that at a nearby research facility,things have gone bad and a zombie plague has been unleashed with early victimsincluding a deer and Scout Leader Rogers. By the time that Ben and Carter getback to town, most of the populace have beenevacuated with only the legions of the walking dead and the partygoers leftbehind. Eventually, Ben and Carter figure out what is going on and afterreuniting with Augie, they realize that it is up to them to utilize theirscouting skills to fight off the relentless waves of zombies, find theirclassmates and lead them to safety before a military airstrike obliterates thetown and anything left in it. Helping them in their fight is Denise (SarahDumont), a cocktail waitress at the local strip club who not only saves Ben andCarter from an attack by a zombie stripper but who later goes above and beyondthe call of duty in trying to help Ben muster the courage to show Kendall howhe feels about her. Likethose previous examples of successful zombie-related comedies that I mentioned,"Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse" is a gory black comedy inwhich much of the humor is centered around the various disgusting ways in whichthe zombie hordes are dispatched throughout. The difference is that those filmsbrought other things to the table as well—social satire, knowing spoofsof the history of zombie cinema and (with the possible exception of"Return of the Living Dead") characters who were likable and funnyenough to make one hope that they might somehow survive the apocalypse."Scouts Guide," on the other hand, contains none of those aspects andis all the worse for it. Instead, it merely offers up a series of gross sightgags that don't really have much going for them other than their willingness tonauseate viewers, and to crib at will from its predecessors. (In the mostblatant appropriation, the most infamous bit from "Re-Animator" isredone here without a fraction of the wit or audacity of the original.) Advertisement For ayoung actor, a film like this is the kind of thing that one does early in theircareer as a stepping stone to better things. In the case of Ty Sheridan, itproves to be the opposite—in a still-young career thatbegan with a lovely turn in Terrence Malick's masterpiece "The Tree ofLife" (2011) and was immediately followed with strong performances in"Mud" (2012) and "Joe" (2014), this just feels like a wasteof his talents. As his pals, Miller and Morgan are largely forgettable while SarahDumont makes the only real impression as the surprisingly resilient Denise, theonly person on display that anyone would want to spend time with. Those with aparticular fetish for watching well-known stars doing weird and off-puttingthings on the big screen will be thrilled to learn that for the price of aticket, they can seeCloris Leachmanin what is almost certainly the singlemost embarrassing moment of her entire career and David Koechner in what isprobably the third-most-embarrassing moment of his. Loud,repellent, badly written, indifferently directed and almost completely devoidof any genuine laughs, "Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse" isessentially a film for 12-year-old boys who can still derive some kind of basicentertainment from the mere sight of spurting blood or a bare breast, all thebetter if they can appear at the same time. For everyone else, it is littlemore than disposable junk that will only make you appreciate the achievementsof the likes of "Shaun of the Dead" and "Zombieland" evenmore. By the way, if you have been locked on the notion of zombie stripperssince I mentioned it earlier and have wondered why they didn't make a movieabout that, you should know that there is indeed a film along those lines bythe name of, no surprise, "Zombie Strippers" (2008). Put it this way—it may not be better than "Scouts Guide to the ZombieApocalypse" but when all is said and done, it is not demonstrably worseeither.