“I made a lot of mistakes in my time,” the voice of a man, arather older and grizzled-sounding man, intones at the opening of this filmover images of very spacious skies at sunset. “All mine,” the narrator, whodoes not return for the rest of the film, continues. So. “Lost In The Sun,”written and directed byTrey Nelson, is the chronicle of one man’s lot ofmistakes, the man being John (Josh Duhamel) whom we first see casually perusingthe aisles of a gas station convenience store. The gas station itself is of thefalling-apart sort, beloved of filmmakers who’ve spent a lot of time looking atold Robert Frank coffee table photograph books and keep Faded Americanawebsites bookmarked. I guess the proprietor can’t afford to replace the façadeby the pumps because he spent too much on the very intimidating shotgun hepoints at Duhamel as his character makes to leave. Advertisement Duhamel then offers to the shotgun-pointer “the truth,”which means the movie flashes back once more, this time to a week earlier, andDuhamel’s John is seen more or less crashing the funeral of a young woman whohas been very well laid out. To what end seems uncertain, as her teenage sonLouis (Josh Wiggins) seems the sole actually-invested mourne. The pushy clergyman who put the whole thingtogether then tries to hustle Louis onto a bus, to take up residence with hisgrandparents in New Mexico. John has got other ideas. He spins a yarn to Louis andmakes an offer to drive him to his destination. John makes an enigmatic phonecall, and off the two go, on a road trip that will, among other things, take ina good deal of Faded Americana. For the first fifteen minutes or so Wiggins and Duhamelweave a performing rhythm that conjures some genuine intrigue. As in, youactually do wonder what these two people really are to each other. But whenJohn makes a pit stop with some sharks who’ve got hooks in him, the expositiongets pretty dull: “I didn’t ask for your protection,” John laconically proteststo one weasel. Weasel Number Two helpfully explains, “Yeah, but you took it.You knew jail coulda been dangerous for you, John.” Jail. Dangerous. Imagine. Soon enigmatic flashbacks-within-flashbacks provide further“clues,” John keeps heedlessly putting Louis in harm’s way as he goes aboutlooting and shooting, and during moments of respite John tries to impart wisdomto Louis. “Look at that piece of ass,” he says of a drive-in restaurantwaitress (see, I wasn’t kidding about Faded Americana). He then advises Louisthat nothing on this earth is more deadly than a “scorned woman.” Never occursto the guy that regularly referring to women as pieces of ass might go a longway to soliciting their scorn, but hey. As John and Louis keep losing the cars they steal, John hitsupon the idea of traveling with a tough single mom and her teen daughter. This team, featuringLynn CollinsandEmma Fuhrmannlivens things up, butinsufficiently. By the time you’re meant to learn just what the tie is between John and Louis, you’ve stopped caring. But, thanks to the excellent if alittle on the obviously-pictorial-side cinematography byRobert Barocci, you’veseen some lovely vistas on the way to indifference. Advertisement