A ways into “Trumbo,” a TV-style biopic about blacklistedscreenwriterDalton Trumbo, it’s the late ‘40s and Bryan Cranston's eponymous protagonist isin federal prison. He's just had a ruinous appearance before the U.S. House Committeeon Un-American Activities (HUAC), when he runs into J. Parnell Thomas (James DuMont), theformer chair of that committee, who’s been convicted of income tax evasion.When the congressman remarks sardonically that they’re now in the same boat,Trumbo archly retorts, “Except that you committed a crime and I didn’t.” Advertisement Which tells you a lot about “Trumbo”: it’s another of thosesimplistic, made-to-order films about the Hollywood blacklist in which theblacklisted movie folks are all innocent, in every conceivable way. In fact,though, Trumbo was convicted of a crime: contempt of Congress, which involvedrefusing to answer even basic factual testimony to a committee embarked on apolitically questionable but entirely lawful investigation. The problem with reviewing a movie like “Trumbo” is that itcomes after decades of misinformation and distortion that have left the publicmemory of the events it covers awash in rampant misperceptions. Take, as justone minor example, the DVD jacket copy on a recent documentary about Trumbo,which describes him as “among the ‘Hollywood Ten’ blacklisted by the HouseUn-American Committee in the 1940s for communist associations.” As a statement of fact, that assertion would probably beaccepted at face value by many folks. But HUAC never blacklisted anyone.Hollywood’s studio chiefs set up the blacklist after the 1947 hearings; forover a decade, it was a practice that most people in the industry eithersupported or didn’t openly resist. Trumbo himself, while allowing that he didindeed hold the 1947 Congress and some subsequent ones in contempt, was adamantin insisting that the U.S. government and its vicious right-wingers weren’t toblame for the blacklist—Hollywood was. That’s one of the crucial points that somehow gets lost in“Trumbo,” which partakes of the same muddled mythology that has grown up aroundthe blacklist since the 1970s. This mythology depends on various confusions andencourages others (e.g., that Sen. Joseph McCarthy had something to do withCongress’ pursuit of Hollywood; he didn’t). Above all, it invites us to the seethe Communist Party USA as just another political party rather than as thedomestic instrument of a hostile and ultra-murderous foreign tyranny. Advertisement Trumbo joined the Communist Partyin 1943, when the US and USSR were allies. We never see anything of hisactivities in the party over the several years when he was a member. Rather,when the film opens in 1947, he’s a rich, super-successful screenwriter whoseparty membership gets him called in front of HUAC. Although the movie doesn’texplain why all members of Hollywood Ten adopted the same, ill-fated strategyof claiming the First Amendment (rather than the Fifth, which would keepsubsequent witnesses out of jail), it shows they expect the Supreme Court tooverturn their subsequent contempt-of-Congress convictions. That doesn’t happen, so they all go to prison, where Trumbolearns that some members of the proletariat despise his communism as much asright-wingers likeJohn Waynedo. Back in Hollywood thereafter—the movie elidesthe two years he spent in Mexico with three other screenwriters and their families—he’sobliged to support his family by writing screenplays under pseudonyms for low-rentproducers such as the King brothers (played for laughs byJohn GoodmanandStephen Root). While engaging in this masquerade, he even manages to write“Roman Holiday” and “The Brave One,” which win Oscars that go to the “front”writers whose names were put on them. Trumbo’s difficulties in surviving as a writer under theblacklist, and his efforts to break it, are the movie’s heart. His valiant wifeCleo (Diane Lane) and three school-age kids must deal with an existence builton a complex set of deceptions, and on the orneriness of a writer who does muchof his work in the bathtub swilling booze and smoking. But Trumbo’s cussedperseverance pays off whenKirk Douglasenlists him to write “Spartacus” andOtto Premingerhas him adapt “Exodus”—the movie’s most engaging section, thesescenes point toward a victory for Trumbo that will also rescue others. AdvertisementJay Roach’s direction recalls the brisk efficiency of his TVdramas such as “Game Change” but seems uninterested in getting beneath thedrama’s pat surface. Late in the movie, when Trumbo is an older man, we see a portionof the famous speech in which he declared that there were no heroes or villainsin the blacklist story, only victims. The film doesn’t tell us that this heresyresulted in bitter acrimony from his communist colleagues any more than itshows us how Trumbo’s long-festering disillusionment with the party led to it.The film is full of such lapses in contextualization. For example, missing is any sense of the utter contempt thatTrumbo and his communist cohorts felt for liberals, who, in fact, they oftenregarded with more enmity than they did right-wingers. But that makes sense, ofcourse. The communists were hoping for a revolution to overthrow Americandemocracy. A takeover by fascists would only hasten that result, they thought;successful liberalism could only impede it. Cranston’s portrayal of Trumbo gets much of his determinedcrankiness, but misses his cheeky exuberance and famous joie de vivre; toooften, he simply seems dyspeptic. But most of the characters inJohn McNamara’sscript are drawn in simple strokes, and that’s one of the movie’s biggestproblems. Setting up a political drama in stereotypical black-hat/white-hatfashion results in enjoyably cartoonish villains like flamboyant gossipcolumnist Hedda Hopper (deliciously played byHelen Mirren) and the usualblacklist martyrs, but it also deprives the story of the nuance and complexity forwhich it cries out.