What can one say, finally, about a film in which Mark-PaulGosselaar of “Saved By The Bell” fame actually gives a more commandingperformance than co-starRobert De Niroof Robert De Niro fame? I understandthat the comparison may evoke something in the way of a “you’ve got to see itto believe it” challenge, but I’m not offering any refunds on your ticketpurchase to “Heist” should you choose to act on that incorrect interpretation. Directed byScott Mannfrom a screenplay and story by MaxAdams andStephen Cyrus Sepher(the latter is also an actor, and has a role inthe film; I don’t know what it says about Sepher that he wrote what turns outto be a pretty much completely nothing part for himself, but itisodd), “Heist” begins nastily, withMorris Chestnutand De Niro playing gangsterish fellows indulging in somesadistic torture. The scene is credibly nasty. Overplayed, in fact, in thetradition of contemporary cheapie crime movies that feel obligated to tell theviewer right away that they mean business, and the business isn’t going to bepleasant. Now I know crime doesn’t pay, but I also remember that crime moviescan be fun. This gets off on a sodden foot right away, and that’s not even theworst of it. Things soon quiet down, with a dark-haired young woman waiting for a bus in the quietlate evening; her sit is intercut with frantic views of two men in masksrunning furiously, accompanied by loud music and sound effects that announcethat something INTENSE is GOING DOWN AGAIN. One isn’t ten minutes in, and themovie has sapped one’s will to live. Advertisement Which is kind of too bad. There’s actually a not-too badcaper plot underneath the incoherent over-direction from Mann. Jeffrey DeanMorgan, who, given his efforts here and in therecently-unceremoniously-dumped-into-theaters mess “Shanghai,” maybe deservesthe sobriquet “Hardest Working Man For What Turns Out To Be No Good Reason InShow Business,” plays a dealer on an Alabama casino boat who can’t pay for hisbeloved daughter’s operation. (“Operation for what?” you ask. Are you reallyasking? They never really say, honest. It’s that kind of movie.) So he goes tohis boss, De Niro’s Frank Pope (nicknamed, yes, “The Pope”) for a favor, isrudely turned down, and so assents to co-workerDave Bautista, who acts justlike a pro wrestler and has an idea about knocking off the place and taking outsome dirty, dirty money. Of course things go wrong, and even very wrong—this sort ofthing happens when you’re working from a plan that was sketched out in salt(literally) on a diner table—and the action gets woolier and wilder (a bushijacking! The bus is running out of gas! Several SWAT teams show up!Black-clad figures on motorcycles too!) the plot gets thicker (De Niro’s meancasino owner may be dying and he has a socially-conscious adult daughter whohates his corrupt guts and corrupt money! The 7 p.m. deadline for surgerypayment looms hard!) and the cast gets more motley (the “Saved By The Bell”fellow pops in as a cocky police detective, whileGina Caranoplays a patrolcar cop with a heart of gold but line readings of wood). I’m making it soundbetter than it is. What it is is noisy, noisome, bloody, obnoxious, and more.Mann completely muffs material that, if given a rewrite byDavid Mametand theneven directed by him, could have been as good a movie as David Mamet’s own, um ... “Heist,” which had its problems but didn’t pound you into a state in which youactually envy migraine sufferers.