We have seen a number of documentaries that attempt to digbelow the superficial sheen of celebrity to something deeper about a householdname (one of the best, “Listen to Me, Marlon” came out just this year). And wehave seen a number of documentaries that chronicle troubled productions, mostnotably “Hearts of Darkness” and “Burden of Dreams.” “Steve McQueen: The Man& Le Mans” is a little bit of Column A and a little bit of Column B, using1971’s “Le Mans” as a way to read McQueen’s entire persona. With rare audio ofMcQueen recorded shortly before his death, interviews with all of the keyplayers in the production of the film (including Steve’s ex-wife and son) andnever-before-seen footage,Gabriel ClarkeandJohn McKenna’s documentarycaptures a key moment in the life of an icon. “Le Mans” may not be the film forwhich McQueen is best-remembered, but the doc makes a convincing case that it wasformative in his life and career, impacting the way he saw family, cinema andthe thin line between life and death. The doc gets a little repetitive inmaking these points (it could be 20 minutes shorter), but it’s effectivenonetheless. Advertisement In 1970, Steve McQueen was on top of the world. “The ThomasCrown Affair” and “Bullitt” had made him a sex symbol and a household name. Hedecided to use his star status to bring a passion project to the big screen,a film about the 24-hour car race in France called Le Mans. The year before,James Garnerhad made “Grand Prix” withJohn Frankenheimer, and the fact thatanother actor had made an inferior work about his love angered McQueen(according to a friend in the film, McQueen, who lived in the apartment aboveGarner, would piss off his balcony into the actor’s flower bed.)John Sturges, whohad directed McQueen in “The Magnificent Seven” and “The Great Escape,” wouldhelm the picture, written by Alan Trustman, the screenwriter of “Thomas Crown Affair” and “Bullitt.”Think about that for a minute. The director and writer of McQueen’s mostnotable films to date were behind him on a film about which he felt mostpassionate. It seemed impossible to fail. Of course, it did. Almost immediately, there were problemson the set. As so many behind-the-scenes docs have taught us, starting a filmwithout a script isn’t the best plan of action. They were going to go where therace took them. Steve McQueen is living in a mansion in France, making up anexpensive racing film as it goes along. And he believes he’s in completecontrol. He would make the decisions about how the film turned out. He’ssleeping around on his wife (as he was notorious for doing), and then he findsout that he’s been marked for death by the Manson Family—he was even supposedto be at the party whereSharon Tatewas killed. He’s been targeted to such a degreethat he wants his gun permit renewed, he’s driving cars fast enough that hecould die any day, he’s stealing directorial power over the film—at one point,he’s described as being in a “heightened state.” Yeah, you could say that. A series of car accidents, including one in which McQueenwas driving home his mistress and so it had to be kept quiet, derail productionfurther, and the actor is eventually forced to cede a lot of control over theproject, especially after Sturges leaves it and Trustman is kicked off. Whodoes a film belong to? Its star, director, production company? And what if thatfilm has no real direction? The fact that “Le Mans” was made at all is kind ofa miracle, although it was released to little fanfare as McQueen would go on tomake “bigger” films after it. He didn’t even attend the premiere. However, “LeMans” has a loyal audience now due to its remarkable realism. The footage of acamera car racing the track is mesmerizing. Advertisement “Steve McQueen: TheMan & Le Mans” is an interesting documentary because it approaches itswell-known subject from an unexpected angle. There’s no footage of “Bullitt” or“The Towering Inferno.” It’s not a biopic, but it uses one production to tellmore about its subject than a traditional bio-doc would do. And interviews withthose closest to him, including son Chad McQueen and ex-wife Neile Adams,illuminate this well-known star in a new way. And yet what’s most captivatingabout “The Man & Le Mans” is that footage from the film—seeing what adriver sees on this infamous race; seeing that about which McQueen was sopassionate about capturing on film. I think Steve would have liked it that way.