There has been a mini-wave of movies about homelessness atyear’s end, probably for the same reason that real estate woes and foreclosures(“Love Is Strange,” “99 Homes,” “5 Flights Up,” “My Old Lady”) have been showingup with some regularity. The shrinking middle class and the increasingdiminishment of the American dream can make for compelling drama if handledright. What was once a source of humor in the greed-is-good ‘80s insuch popular comedies as “Trading Places” and “Down and Out in Beverly Hills”is not much of a laughing matter at the moment. But such roles do offer actorsa chance to dig a bit deeper into their thespian souls, as is the case withRichard Geredispensing with his matinee-idol gloss in “Time Out of Mind” andMaggie Smithditching her Dowager Countess routine in the upcomingLondon-located “The Lady in the Van.” Advertisement As they say in what is left of journalism,three is a trend. And No. 3 just happens to be British actor PaulBettany’s directing-and-screenwriting debut, “Shelter,” an admirable attempt atpresenting a difficult subject that suffers from an eventual pileup ofmelodramatic happenstances. At least the first-time helmsman is blessed with two highlyskilled and incredibly watchable actors as his leads.Anthony MackieisNigerian immigrant Tahir, adrift after his visa has run out, while JenniferConnelly (who happens to be Bettany’s wife) is heroin addict Hannah, at herwit’s end and ready to call it a day as she ponders jumping off a train-yardoverpass. They both wander the streets of an uninviting Manhattan withdreary alley ways and corners that would never make the cut in aWoody Allenfilm. Yet they survive, though barely. Tahir entertains the passing hordes withhis rhythmic drumming on plastic construction buckets while eliciting donations.Hannah prefers to plop down at a busy intersection and hold up a cardboard signdeclaring “I used to be someone” with a paper cup for spare change andoccasional cigarettes. Their fates suddenly become intertwined when he spies his stolenjacket around her waist. His courtly manners and acts of kindnesseventually earn her trust, and they become a team. That is when “Shelter” turnsinto a sort of urban fairy tale as the pair happen upon a magic castle in theform of a luxury brownstone whose vacationing owners left a doorunlocked. Fine wine, hot showers, comfy linens and closets groaning withdesigner clothes allow them to play “let’s pretend” and feel human again, eveninspiring Hannah to kick her habit cold turkey. Posing in a red-carpet-worthy white gown, her pale wraith-likebody barely filling out the yards of expensive fabric, she says, “I must looklike a zombie Goldilocks.” Tahir, gazing upon her like a besotted PrinceCharming in his borrowed suit, declares, “You are more beautiful than I havewords for you.” Yes, love is in the air, but enjoying such creature comfortsalso has loosened their tongues and their sharing of their painful pasts putsthem at odds. Bettany the writer is too quick to undercut the most enjoyableportion of the story to interject a source of all-too-convenient tensionbetween the characters, while tossing the Iraq war and terrorism into thethematic mix. But it is appreciated that Tahir is allowed to express his faithin Allah even if he questions some tenets of his religion. Advertisement Soon they are struggling again even as they attempt to bettertheir lives, especially when medical concerns and winter storms enter theever-bleaker picture and desperation leads to some very bad choices. Bettanythe director does find a way to lend a visual poetry to the proceedings,including the use of water as a bonding agent between the couple withscenes of the two kissing in the rain, or a dream sequence of them swimming tothe surface together. But “Shelter” eventually does itself in while subjecting Hannahto some unnecessarily graphic treatment at the hands of an opportunistic doorman, spoiling what should have been a more touching if somber conclusion. Whatstarted as an engaging character study falls apart when the cards that Tahirand Hannah are dealt are so obviously and overtly stacked against them at everyturn. Even if happily-ever-after wasn’t going to be an option, it would havebeen nice to feel that fairy-tale glow once again, no matter how briefly. That said, the fine performances by Mackie and especiallyConnelly, who generously gives her all including acomic bit that involves her talking like a Munchkin after inhaling helium, ensure that even those put off by the final portion will keep onwatching.