“What do you get whenyou cross Sir     Elton John    with a saber-toothed tiger? I don’t know, but youbetter keep it away from your ass!” This is not exactly a joke, but it’sdelivered as one by The Comedian, the struggling stand-up comic at the heart ofRick Alverson’s ironically named feature “Entertainment.” And the line gets thefaintest hint of a laugh—possibly because he’s delivering it to a literallycaptive audience in a prison cafeteria, where the men in orange jumpsuits maybe primed to chuckle at anything that deflates the tension around forced analintercourse. It’s one of the few moments in “Entertainment” where TheComedian’s awkward, confrontational one-liners actually amuse someone. Mostly, hisonscreen audiences seem uncomfortable, embarrassed, and trending towardhostile, and the film’s viewers are primed to follow suit. Pushing the envelopeof awkwardness to provoke an emotional reaction is unquestionably part of thepoint. But that commitment to terrible humor is one of the few unquestionablethings about “Entertainment,” which is openly designed to provoke unease anduncertainty. Advertisement The Comedian is played by real-life comedian GreggTurkington, and he’s essentially Turkington’s longtime alter-ego Neil Hamburger,right down to the owlish oversized glasses, ghastly comb-over, and habit ofclutching three or four cocktails under one arm as he performs. “Entertainment”is a slice of life featuring him out on tour in the California wasteland aroundthe Mojave Desert, hitting a series of mostly empty small-town bars and lessreputable venues. The other half of the act is a clown named Eddie ("Mud" and "Joe" co-starTye Sheridan) whose set largely consists of jumping around wearing adaffy grin, or simulating masturbation and defecation into his hat. They’re anawkward pair, but at least Eddie seems like he’s consciously putting on an actas brightly fake as the greasepaint he slathers onto his face. The Comedian isjust as dour, awkward, and bitter offstage as he is onstage. “Entertainment” feels like a low-budgetDavid Lynchfilm,full of surreal interludes and oppressive silences. The script, written by Alverson,Turkington, and “Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!”’sTim Heidecker(whostarred in Alverson’s last feature, “The Comedy”), consists of splinteredmoments that don’t link together, except symbolically: The Comedian driftsthrough daytime tours of an airline graveyard and a sun-baked Old West movieset. He witnesses a bloody birth in a women’s bathroom. He spends time with afarmer cousin (John C. Reilly), confronts a desperate hustler (Michael Cera),and gets shut into a light booth by a chromatherapist (Lotte Verbeek) Strippedto his boxers, he’s dragged into an eerie nighttime game of Marco Polo with agroup of drunken strangers seemingly ported in from “Wild at Heart.” There’s nosense of linear time in his world, just an overriding sense of dissociation,displacement, and frustration. And inevitably, he vents that frustration onstage. His awfulgags (“Why don’t rapists eat at T.G.I.Friday’s? Well, it’s hard to go out and rape when you have a stomachache!”)are meant to be startling and off-putting, but his invective when his audiencedoesn’t laugh—or worse, talks back—crosses the line into grotesquerie. Turkington’swhining, stammering delivery as Hamburger is designed to keep pushing audiencesaway: He draws out words until they turn into aural sandpaper. He repeatshimself, stammers, or injects pauses so long that a faster-moving comic mightbe able to wedge a few bits in during the dead air. He’s excruciating. But TheComedian also seems authentically outraged at all the ingrates who don’t findhim hilarious. Advertisement Or does he? That’s the open question of a project thissteeped in audience provocation. Turkington-as-Hamburger has been a knownquantity for decades in terms of awkward, artificial discomfort comedy, andHeidecker projects like “Tim and Eric” and “Check It Out! With Dr. Steve Brule”(starring Reilly) go to the same well of comedy so consciously disjointed andconfrontational that it’s meant to startle viewers back around into hilarity.It’s hard to take anything The Comedian does entirely seriously, even when he’sleaving weary, plaintive phone messages for a daughter who may not exist. Hismessages into the ether recall Dale Cooper endlessly talking into a taperecorder on “Twin Peaks,” just as “Entertainment”’s soundtrack, heavy on crooning,cooing dream-pop, recalls Lynch’s work with Julee Cruise. But above all, “Entertainment”evokes Lynch by keeping the audience off-base, never entirely sure what’s real. Lynch isn’t Alverson’s only touchstone; “Entertainment” alsorecallsQuentin Dupieux’s films “Rubber” and “Wrong,” not just for the surreal,straight-faced confrontational comedy, but for the exquisitely shot sense ofsetting. “Entertainment's" place in time and in the comedy world is unclear,but DPLorenzo Hagermangives its arid desert locales and grimy venues a senseof solidity that helps ground the story’s aimlessness. The Comedian is an uglyman with an ugly soul, and an ugly sense of comedy that at one point literallyincludes making fart noises for 90 full seconds as he pretends to gun down hissilent audience with a soccer trophy. But he’s occupying a world that at timesis strikingly beautiful. No wonder he resents it so much.