[Ed. Note - This review discusses a few scenes in detail that could be considered spoilers. You've been warned.] We have seen countless stories of how responsibility canforge maturity in young men. People often don’t reach adulthood until they’reforced to do so by life. They don’t shake their demons because they wake oneday and make that choice—it's often a decision forced upon them by rock bottom, or,in the case of the title character inJosh Mond’s stunning debut “James White,”because they cannot run away any longer. Responsibility can make adults of usall. Few films have captured that arc as cinematically as “James White.” Advertisement The film opens with loud music and an extreme close-up of itstitle character (Christopher Abbott), sweaty, bobbing, almost closing his eyes.He’s messed up; drinking, talking, and stumbling through the halls of aclub. He downs another alcoholic beverage and stumbles onto the street toreveal daylight, a major city going through its day. He’s probably been thereall night. And he’s going to a Shiva service at his mother’s house for hisrecently-deceased father. Even he looks a little ashamed at his lack ofresponsibility. The death of James’ estranged father will not be the event thatshakes him from his destructive patterns. They weren’t close—he meets hisfather’s new wife for the first time after his death—and he’s not ready tobreak free. Between sittings, he yells at a woman at a bar, gets into a fight,and goes clubbing again, hooking up with someone new. Then it’s back to thegrief. This is James’ life—cycles of pain and doing anything to numb that pain. We can tell early on that James is close to his mother(Cynthia Nixon). He has been with her before as she has undergone cancertreatments, but she seems better now. He tells her that he’s going to Mexico toget his shit together after his father’s death, and he’ll come back a new man.While he seems to be recovering south of the border, he starts seeing a young tourist named Jayne (Makenzie Leigh), but is forced to return early when his mother’s cancer resurfaces. They’vebeen through this before, but something in her eyes looks different this time. At first, James reverts to a few of his selfish ways. He’ssurprised that his new girlfriend doesn’t sacrifice everything for him. Hedrinks. He lashes out at his best friend Nick (Kid Cudi). But then reality sets inwhen he learns that his mother needs hospice care and not a hospital. Therewill be no more treatments. “James White” is a masterful examination of how our behaviorand the excuses we make about our lives fall away under certain, life-changingconditions. Most of us have dealt with grief, loss and pain in our lives, andit does something to you. It changes you. Hollywood has long told stories oflosers made into winners through tragedy, but “James White” charts thattrajectory in its own way, unafraid of the ugly truth of death. Mond shootsalmost entirely in close-up, bringing us right into the face of James White, asunable to turn away from his story as he is. It wouldn’t work without the revelatoryperformance from Abbott, who commits to every emotional beat without makingWhite too much of an asshole to make his redemption worthwhile. He's matched by fearless work from Nixon, doing the best work of her career. Advertisement Mond also carefully refuses to play into melodrama to definethe arc of his character. There are no great revelatory scenes in “James White,”although there’s one later on that I believe qualifies as one in its own uniqueway; it’s also the most heartbreaking moment of the year. James, knowing hismother is dying and holding her at her most vulnerable, tells her an alternate vision of the future, one in which her canceris gone. With his mother’s head against his chest, in a position his headlikely laid on her chest as a baby, he tells her a story. It’s the most movingand powerful scene that cinema has produced in a very long time. “See me happy.See me as a father. See me as a kind and loving man.” He’s not just crafting acomforting dream for her, he’s giving himself purpose as well. He can now see those things as well, possibly for the first time. Through pain, he’sfinding the direction he’s lacked. "James White" is also about learning to experience the fullrange of emotions. There’s a key moment early in the film in which James’mother says to him, “I’m just sad. It’s OK to be sad.” James is one of thoseangry young men who doesn’t understand that fact. It's often one of the last lessons we learn. James runs from sadness, responsibilityand pain, numbing it with his own addiction. Until he can no longer run. Theambiguous ending will aggravate some, but James, a character we have almostalways seen moving, bobbing and weaving through the film, isn’t moving in that finalscene. I believe he’s learned it’s OK to be still and to be sad. In fact, it makes him a betterperson.