One of the toughest challenges for a filmmaker is to take astory to which everyone knows the ending (or at least ought to know the ending)and retell it in a way that puts the outcome in doubt again.Steven Spielbergaccomplishes this in this year’s fact-based Cold War tale “Bridge of Spies,”and now Mexican directorPatricia Riggendoes something not dissimilar with a fact-basedstory of more recent vintage. “The 33” is a technically impressive simulation of the minecollapse and rescue in Chile in 2010, a cataclysmic event that saw 33 minerstrapped underground for a stupefying-seeming 69 days. Their plight became aninternational cause during that period, and their incredibly improbable rescuewas a “whole world is watching” moment on a par with the first moon landing.The movie throws together an international cast that may on first glance strikethe movie-savvy viewer as improbable as well: while the English-languageproduction featuresAntonio BanderasandLou Diamond Phillips, two actors withobvious Latino bonafides in several departments, in key leading roles, it alsohas French actorJuliette Binocheand Irish actorGabriel Byrnein prominentparts, both playing Chileans. It’s a testament to director Riggen’s skill withactors that she makes the ensemble a seamless one. Unless your objections tocasting against conventional type are violent ones, there shouldn’t be aproblem Advertisement A slight problem comes up at the movie’s opening, as thechief characters are introduced in a party scene. One is an elderly miner who’sretiring; another is an experienced fellow who’s asking his buddy and foremanfor an extra shift on a day he’s supposed to have off; another is a youngerminer who’s about to become a father and who’s looking into getting out of themining biz as a result. All three of these cases, of course, add to the “whatincredible irony” quotient when a chunk of rock two times the mass of theEmpire State Building trap them almost 2,000 feet underground, with only three days’worth of food and water rations in the refuge area where the miners roost. It’s in the aftermath of the catastrophe that the movieramps up the suspense and claustrophobia. The story toggles between the mineand the surface world. Below, the miners assess their situation and determinethe measure of its true desperation. Above, miners’ families—includingBinoche’s Maria, the guilt-ridden sister of a drunkard miner, one pregnantwife, and the competing wife and mistress of one sheepishly rakishworker—demand answers and action. The Chilean government, in the person of agreen and earnest minister played byRodrigo Santoro(“Che,” “300”) steps in;Gabriel Byrne’s tough mining engineer thinks the miners are all but dead ducks,and his interactions with Santoro’s character do a good job with explainingjust why the chances for a rescue were initially in the vicinity of onepercent. The ensuing action shows how the odds increased. There are alot of characterizations, and a few character arcs, that the movie takes on,and Riggen doesn’t mind having to do sketches—a more thorough movie would havebeen, well a mini-series. But it’s a real accomplishment that she keeps theaction coherent throughout, and she shows admirable daring at times. Theimpending starvation of the miners inspires a hallucination dinner scene that’spretty audacious, and genuinely funny. Anchoring the underground action are theperformances of Banderas and Phillips; the former is reliably charismatic asusual, while Phillips provides a bunch of reminders of what a subtle andeffective actor he can be. This unabashedly crowd-pleasing movie gets to itsuplifting but also somewhat disquieting conclusion and coda (which, as is thecustom these days, introduces the audience to the real-life miners) with itsintegrity intact. As such, it’s a pretty pleasant surprise, and in more thanone way. Advertisement