Where “Black Lives Matter” has become a rallying cry in theU.S.,Jonas Carpignano’s sharply crafted “Mediterranea” voices a counterpartfor African immigrants in southern Italy: “Stop shooting blacks!” That chantemerges at the dramatic apex of the multi-nationally funded feature, whichotherwise offers a deliberately muted, finely textured account of the ordealsmany Africans endure both before and after voyages to Europe in search ofbetter lives. The film’s subject is, of course, incredibly timely. If recent media attention has focused on the waves of desperate migration from theMiddle East, the flights from Africa depicted here are no less perilous anddramatically charged, resulting in Mediterranean drownings and occasionalracial strife such as the 2010 riots in Rosarno, Italy, that drewwriter-director Carpignano to the area in its wake. Advertisement With an African-American mother and an Italian father,Carpignano was well-positioned to examine the situation of Africans in Italy.He first turned his investigations into a short, “A Chjána,” which won him aCritics Week prize at Cannes and a place at the Sundance Lab, where hedeveloped it into the current feature. Carpignano has noted that the stories of migratory hardshipsin the media recently concern two types of migrants: those fleeing war orpersecution, and those seeking better economic opportunities. The Africans hefocuses on in “Mediterranea” belong to the latter group, which he compares tothe mass immigration of southern Italians to the U.S. in the early 20thcentury. The root causes of the two movements may have been the same, but as he alsonotes, the earlier migration was better organized legally and logistically thanthe more chaotic exodus from Africa in this century. While researching “A Chjána,” Carpignano had the singulargood fortune of meeting an African immigrant named Koudos Seihon, who helpedhim enter and understand the immigrant world and became his lead actor in“Mediterranea.” Striking and charismatic, Seihon is a natural screen presenceblessed with both power and subtlety. It’s hard to overstate his importance tothe film. He plays Ayiva, who leaves Burkino Faso aiming to create abetter life for his wife and daughter by finding employment in Europe. With hisquirky, rebellious friend Abas (a strong performance by Senegalese actorAlassane Sy) and other hopefuls, he ventures through the punishing deserts ofNorth Africa and makes a hazardous crossing of the Mediterranean. Reaching his goal, though, doesn’t mean a dream fulfilled.Southern Italy contains both problem-plagued opportunities and lurking threats.Along with some of their counterparts, Ayiva and Abas find work as fruitpickers, which, while offering at least some remuneration, entails varioussorts of difficulties including blatantly unfair treatment by some of theItalian bosses. Interestingly, the main boss invites the African workersinto his house, introduces them to his family and feeds them a big Italian farmdinner. The man’s mother instructs everyone to call her “Mamma” and chides theAfricans in maternal fashion for not taking off their hats at table. At thesame time, Ayiva begins to strike up a friendship with the boss’ daughter.These passages of hospitality from some Italians contrast nicely with thehostility that will be displayed by others later in the story. Advertisement Apart from their interaction with Italians, the film depictsthe Africans’ lives as migrant workers, which includes friendships andanimosities, boredom and temptation. The African women that the men find in Italycan be good-time partiers or offer professional relief from their loneliness,which is not erased by their ability to talk with their families by Skype, asAyiva does. These women, in any case, form their own discrete subculture withappropriate idols and anthems: the music of Rihanna, especially the song “WeFound Love” (with its evocation of a “hopeless place”), is omnipresent. The presence of the Africans eventually inflames the tempersand bigotries of this rustic backwater, resulting in the violence that willprovoke a riot and chants of “Stop shooting blacks!” But this doesn’t seem tobe point of the story, just another episode in the immigrants’ long, sometimesbumpy odyssey. Overall, the film employs a rather anecdotal, loose-leafapproach to narrative, which enhances its feel of anthropological accuracy butnot its dramatic power. We emerge feeling we’ve been escorted into a real andfascinating world rather than engaged by a truly compelling and focused story.Partly, this is a function of the film’s emphasis on its beautifully realizedverité-like surface, which comes acrosssomewhat as an end in itself. Such meticulous, fashionable naturalism belongs to manyEuropean art films and not a few Sundance products (Carpignano, giftedcinematographerWyatt Garfieldand editorAffonso Gonçalvesall worked on“Beasts of the Southern Wild,” whose director,Benh Zeitlin, co-wrote the scoreof “Mediterranea”) and it’s not always fortunate, resulting in films oftendestined to reach only elite audiences in festivals and art houses. Given thesubject of “Mediterranea,” it could have benefited by an approach that wouldattract a wider viewership. That said, it’s a very impressive and valuable first film onnumerous levels. Carpignano, Seihon, Garfield and their collaborators aresurely talents to watch. Advertisement