Jonathan Levine’s “The Night Before” is anotherSeth Rogenjoint in which the talented comedian/writer faces adulthood, learning thatfriendship can survive the journey to maturity. Throughout the raucous,drug-fueled comedy, Rogen’s character and his best friends speak repeatedly ofthis being the last such bash. It made me wonder if Rogen wasn’t heading offcriticism of repetition in the past—yes, we’ve thrown this party before in films like “KnockedUp,” “This is the End” and “Neighbors” but this is reallythe last time. Whether or not that’s thecase, “The Night Before” is a well-intentioned comedy with some big laughs andsome big misfires, but it ultimately works because Rogen and his well-castbuddies ground it in a way that makes them likable. A killerMichael Shannonsupporting performance never hurts either. Advertisement “The Night Before” opens with a literal Christmas talestorybook animation, narrated byTracy Morganin a way only he can. We learn ofthree best friends—Ethan (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), Isaac (Seth Rogen) and Chris(Anthony Mackie)—who have been spending Christmas Eve together for over adecade, since Ethan lost his parents, doing their best to have as much fun aspossible acting mostly like idiots. Blowing up snowmen, getting high and goingto look at the Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree, singing “Christmas inHollis” at karaoke—they’ll do whatever it takes to make this holiday more memorablethan the last, recognizing that emotions run high at the holidays and trying tokeep Ethan positive. The annual event is straining under the reality ofadulthood. Isaac has a loving wife (Jillian Bell), who is well into her thirdtrimester. He’s about to be a father for the first time—there can be no more holidaydebauchery. Chris is dealing with a different issue altogether, having abreakthrough season on the football field, although he’s been using steroids todo so, recognizing that a 34-year-old athlete is past his prime. He also seemsmore concerned with his social media following than his real life. Meanwhile,Ethan is recently split from Diana (Lizzy Caplan), a girl who finally showedhim the door after he kept refusing to meet her parents. He not-so-secretlywants her back. Two events define the trajectory of “The Night Before”—Ethanstumbles upon tickets to a legendary NYC holiday party known as “The NutcrackerBall,” while Isaac’s wife gives him a box of drugs to enhance the evening’sinsanity. As the boys pre-game for the big party to comelater that night, Isaac gets deeply messed up, allowing Rogen to display sometruly bad behavior as he mixes mushrooms, Molly, coke, weed and more from hisbox of goodies. Meanwhile, Chris tries to buy some pot to impress the starquarterback on his team, leading the gang to Mr. Green (Michael Shannon), thesame dealer they bought from back in high school. Comedy Central stars IlanaGlazer (“Broad City”) and Nathan Fielder (“Nathan For You”) pop up in cameos,and Miley Cyrus appears late in the piece in a very funny scene to remind usall that “Wrecking Ball” is a perfect pop song. Advertisement Several of the “bits” within “The Night Before” fallsurprisingly flat.Mindy Kalingis wasted as Diana’s best friend, and a scenein which Isaac’s nose drips “cocaine blood” into her drink is horribly unfunny.Another scene late in the piece in which Ethan picks a fight with a couple ofdrunk guys dressed as Santa Claus also simply doesn’t work. One wonders if thepiece didn’t need another rewrite, or if Levine, who has shown solid dramaticchops with “50/50,” was the right fit for this kind of “wacky adventure.” Hedoesn’t always nail the comedic balance, especially as the piece gets deeper inits characterizations and we’re still supposed to believe these guys are dumbenough to try and steal a horse-drawn carriage (another disastrously unfunnybit). If you’re keeping a ledger, and some of you probably are, “The NightBefore” has more scenes that simply don’t work compared to “This is the End” or “Neighbors.” However, and this is a big however, it has a great cast.Gordon-Levitt and Mackie bring gravity to their roles that would otherwise bemissing with lesser, pure comedy actors in the roles. Caplan and Gordon-Levitt have honest chemistry, andLevine seems more invested in their arc than most directors would be. We wantto see these characters happy, and that matters more than you might think. They're not merely joke mouthpieces like in a Happy Madison flick. They're real people played by excellent actors. Their narrative quest for comfort under theChristmas tree doesn’t feel like the cliché that it otherwise would becauseLevine and his trio of actors invest in it completely. And Michael Shannonsteals every scene he’s in as the wisest pot dealer in the Big Apple. “The Night Before” has enough bad jokes to at times make you wonderif Rogen shouldn’t have matured out of this subgenre one movie earlier. However, it ends strong. The last half-hour is the best in the film, aswe’ve come to know and like these characters, and the writers are done wastingtime to get to the big jokes and emotional realizations we’ve all been waitingfor. In the end, it’s not the lowlights of those “crazy nights” of our lifethat we remember, and “The Night Before” has enough highlights to make it afitting final holiday bash. Advertisement