The Kray Brothers, Reggie and Ronnie, were suchostentatiously violent and vulgar gangsters that they practically constituted aself-parody. They were both newly in jail when the then-also-new comedy troupeMonty Python’s Flying Circus deemed to lampoon them with a sketch about “ThePiranha Brothers,” Doug and Dinsdale, but the thing about that sketch, as it happened,was just howlittleit needed tostray from reality in order to hit the comic mark. Nevertheless, the Krays, whoruled criminal London from the late 1950s until their imprisonment in 1968, didreal and wide-ranging human harm in their careers; this is a fact that BrianHelgeland, writer and director of a new crime movie about the twins, doesn’tseem to have any good ideas about what to do with. But that isn’t why “Legend”is such a muddle right off the bat. Advertisement Right off the bat it’s a muddle because of Helgeland’sslavish devotion toMartin Scorsese, a bad thing to display when you don’t haveScorsese’s chops. Early on in the picture, as Reggie Kray, the relativelycharming, less psychotically violent of the fellows, is courting his futurewife Frances, Helgeland opts to do a little “GoodFellas.” As Reggie escortsFrances into a pub where he’s the kingpin, the moving camera follows frombehind and glides alongside the couple as various friends of Reggie pay theirrespects. On a stage at the back, a singer is crooning “The Look of Love,” asong that had not actually been written when the scene takes place, but nevermind that. You know where this is going. Helgeland wants to create his ownversion of the famed Copacabana tracking shot in Scorsese’s legendary 1990gangster film, but he hasn’t quite worked out all the choreography—hence, theaforementioned singer ends up performing the world’s longest version of “TheLook of Love,” at least until the point at which the sound editor or someonedecided to have mercy and faded the guy out and substituted somegeneric-sounding movie music. This is merely one example, and a prettyoutstanding one. There are plenty more throughout the film. (All of this isdoubly stupefying when one recalls what a solid job Helgeland did in bothwriting and directing departments in his last picture, the 2013 Jackie Robinsonstory “42.”) The movie’s main advantage and/or talking point is TomHardy, who plays both twins. Reggie is slick and confident, while Ronnie, aparanoid schizophrenic with strong sadistic tendencies, is like Lenny in “OfMice And Men” if Lenny had been an East London mook, and evil to boot. Bothperformances are commanding, but not as commanding as they might have been. Theweaknesses of Helgeland’s writing and directing are also to blame here.Particularly the latter: the unimaginative (and, I imagine, practicallyexpedient) framing of the two Hardys during scenes in which they’re togethermakes the dual performance play like a tricksy stunt at times. Helgeland couldhave learned a great deal from the blocking of dualJeremy IronsaccomplishedbyDavid Cronenbergin “Dead Ringers,” which made the viewer feel as if therewere really two different people in the frame. Too many times here there’s thefeel of two different performances. Sometimes Hardy manages to ignite a spark.There’s a scene in which Chazz Palmentieri, playing a bluff emissary from theAmerican Mafia, makes the twins an offer they’re better off not refusing,Ronnie’s belligerence notwithstanding. When Ronnie makes an unabashedannouncement concerning his sexual preferences to this wise guy, it’s a realmoment. As is one with Hardy’s Reggie, finally confessing at the end to hisbrother why he’s directing his own violent impulses so destructively into onetarget. Moments such as these are too few and far between, whilemoments such as a wedding scene prefaced by the song “Chapel of Love” are fartoo many. The lucky bride is Reggie’s, and her name is Frances, and it’s withFrances’ story that the movie, for me, broke away from irritating mediocrityand into genuine badness. Helgeland’s conception of Frances is doubly banal. First, hesaddles her with the burden of semi-omniscient narration that’s rife withplatitudinous nonsense (“It was time for the Krays to enter the secret historyof the 1960s” and “Not even Scotland Yard could ignore murder on the street,”the latter of which has the uncomfortable echo of the bit in the PiranhaBrothers sketch wherein the gangsters detonate a nuclear device over London).Second, he gives her onscreen character hardly any more depth than any of thecomplaining gangster and/or undercover cop wives you’ve seen in dozens of crimepictures over the years,Emily Browning’s committed performancenotwithstanding. Which makes Helgeland’s final trick with this character allthe more objectionable when he finally pulls it. I knew a bit about the case ofthe Krays before coming in to the screening of the picture, but that knowledgewasn’t at the forefront of my consciousness as I watched the movie. And then Ithought … wait a minute. And sure enough … Advertisement Spoiler alert: Reginald Kray’s real-life first wife, FrancesShea, committed suicide in 1967, two years after marrying Kray. And this isindeed depicted in the last fifth of the film, complete withFrances-as-narrator playing a little bit of “gotcha” with the audience. Itstrikes me as both aesthetically cheap and morally dubious to make an actualsuicide into your own Joe Gillis for the sake of … well, that’s the other thing,which is I don’t know what “Legend” was made in the sake of. It’s a squalidstory told with very little in the way of a dynamic personal perspective, andhence a waste of its very talented cast.