I suppose as a longtime fan of Universal monster movies andother forms of classic horror, as well as being, you know, an old man, I can beforgiven for having hoped that this newfangled origin story of a fabled monstermaker would be something not entirely awful. Call me a naïve old man. DirectedbyPaul McGuigan(of “Lucky Number Slevin,” which should have tipped me off alittle) from a screen story and script byMax Landis(of whom it can be said,at the very least, that horror appreciation runs in his family, what with hisfather having made “An American Werewolf In London”), “Victor Frankenstein” is,despite bravura performances from committed young leadsDaniel RadcliffeandJames McAvoy, all kinds of obnoxious and pointless. Advertisement It begins with Radcliffe’s Igor narrating that there’s astory “we all know,” but that the story he’s about to tell is different … andyes, I said Igor. Radcliffe’s at-first-nameless character is introduced as amuch-abused circus hunchback who’s also, get this, a self-taught expert inanatomy and biology. I know, right? He pines for circus acrobat Lorelei(Jessica Brown Findlay), and when she suffers a fall, he and med student VictorFrankenstein (visiting the circus for, um, spare animal parts it turns out)perform a reviving miracle on her … and thus a bond is formed. Victor abducts thefuture Igor from his sideshow captors, in a scene that brings to mind a GuyRitchie "Sherlock Holmes" movie, only not as good (yes, you read that right,“only not as good”), and installs him in his lab, the better to assist him inhis ambitious, perhaps mad, schemes. Landis’ script is extremely knowing and endlessly allusive.The Frankenstein here isMary Shelley’s but his backstory includes a brother,Henry, which is the name of the character played inJames Whale’s“Frankenstein” from 1933. A police inspector tracking down Victor and his new palgets an origin story of his own, one that puts him in line to become the LionelAtwill character if this movie becomes a franchise, which we ought pray it doesnot. For all the enthusiasm brought to bear, and again, despite the brio of theyoung cast (McAvoy makes his “let’s create life” speeches withspittle-projecting eagerness), the movie’s a bloody mess, and a needlessly loudone as well.