Its title already redolent of a perhaps skewed idea ofChristmas cheer, “Uncle Nick” lays its cards on the table early, withultra-hefty comic performerBrian Posehndelivering a brief history ofCleveland, Ohio in voice-over, all before directorChris Kasickoffers the viewer afew shots of Posehn’s character lounging around in his underwear. For Posehn’sNick, “lounging” means staring into the void of his hovel, chain-smoking anddrinking. More misery is delivered via phone, when Nick is informed that hismother, in some sort of assisted living facility, is feeling poorly, and thatit would be ill-advised for her to join the family for their Christmas dinner. Advertisement The promotional tagline for this movie, which Kasickdirected from a script byMike Demski, is “Nothing Ruins Christmas LikeFamily,” and that is indeed pretty much the gist of it. Posehn’s Nick is amiddle-aged drunk who inherited his dad’s landscaping company while slick babybrother Cody (Beau Ballinger) has recently married into McMansion-level money,in the form of well-mannered but maybe a trifle uptight pharmaceutical sale aceSophie (Paget Brewster). Sophie indulges the rather smarmy Cody ratherinexplicably, while Nick resents the guy and lusts after Sophie’s20-year-old-daughter from a prior marriage, the sassy and disaffected Valerie(Melia Renee). “She will be mine,” Nick muses in voiceover early in the film.Now, we know that hardcore drunks are both grandiose and can tend toward thedelusional, but even given that, both Nick'saspiration and the assurance seem alittle much. And yet the movie itself indulges it, if only to provide Nick withthe opportunity to—once more, rather inexplicably—take something we’re supposedto recognize as a moral high ground at one point.All of these hijinks, which also involve Sophie’s nerdy butperceptive younger son Marcus (Jacob Houston), and Nick and Cody’s also-sassybut more down-to-earth sister Michelle (Missi Pyle) and her husband Kevin(whose enthusiasm for his podcast is meant to signal “loser,” except when thefilmmakers do the usual switcheroo you get in these stories; he’s played byScott Adsit), are threaded between Nick’s recollections of an infamousreal-life baseball game in Cleveland in 1974. The unifying twist is the sort ofthing meant to impress a screenwriting workshop instructor, while the actionleading up to it toggles between gross physical humor and imagery andin-your-face personal dysfunction. The bad behavior on display, instead ofemerging organically from the characters, seems frequently chosen from a menuof sorts. Early in the movie, Posehn’s Nick is making chitchat with a Latinoemployee who’s just given him a “#1 Boss” coffee mug as a Christmas present.“Bet you never gave this to your bosses in Mexico,” Nick says to Luis (JoeNunez). “Puerto Rico,” Luis corrects him. “Same thing,” Nick smirks. “No, it’snot,” Luis says. OK, so the guy’s a racist, too, that’s great. We’re supposedto root for him anyway, in a sense, is the point of the whole exercise. Well, in this case, the exercise does not work, unless, Isuppose, you are so taken with Posehn that you’ll follow him anywhere. Thisdoes not amount to his most distinguished work. If I want a Profane DomesticFarce Christmas Movie anytime this year, or next, I’m goingto be sticking with “The Ref.”