Combine the subject of religious faith with the cinematicgenius of aRobert Bressonand you get a masterpiece like “Diary of a CountryPriest,” a film stirring enough to move even staunch skeptics. Unfortunately,the subject is more often approached by lesser talents, resulting in movieslikeWilliam Riead’s “The Letters,” about the life of Mother Teresa, a drama inwhich belief is reduced to well-meaning but inert treacle. To give the film credit where some is due: the look createdby cinematographerJack Greenand production designer Aman Vidhate is handsomeand commendably expensive looking, even when the setting is the most miserableslum in Calcutta. Whether it was the Vatican or another source that providedthe movie’s funding, they got their money’s worth in terms of production value. Advertisement On the level of dramatization, however, the film is almostan object lesson in hownotto tell astory like that of Mother Teresa. We start out learning that a woman with atumor says she has been healed by a photograph of the recently departed nun,which sets Teresa on the fast track to sainthood. Investigating her candidacyfor the church, a Vatican priest (Rutger Hauer) visits Father Celeste van Exem(Max Von Sydow), who had been her spiritual advisor for many years, and whonarrates her story by using letters she wrote him over several decades. When his account begins, it’s just after World War II andSister Theresa (Juliet Stevenson) is living in a Calcutta convent, where sheteaches well-to-do Christian girls, and tries to allay their fears regarding theHindu-Muslim violence that’s erupting due to the approach of India’sindependence. Here as after, she’s a model of blandly upbeat piety. The bestcounsel she has offer her worried charges is, “Try not to worry.” This section of the film also introduces one of the film’screakiest devices: having the political context explained by reporters talkingwith each other. It involves dialogue as awful and straightforward as, “So you think India is going to suffer underthe burden of its birth as a modern nation?” As we learn early on, Teresa is not content with herrelatively comfortable situation in the nunnery. After receiving instructionsfrom God (which thankfully we don’t hear) while on a train ride, she proclaimsthat it’s her mission to try alleviating the misery she sees all around her inCalcutta. But this is easier to proclaim than to do, necessitating a processionof dull, repetitious scenes in which her superiors at the convent resist hercampaign even as her appeals to the Vatican stretch on for months. Advertisement She eventually succeeds, and is granted permission to keepher vows and affiliation with the convent while being allowed to work in theslum outside it. There, her main challenge is overcoming the suspicions of itsHindu residents. Initially, she’s not out to provide food to the starving orcare to the ill. She says she just wants to teach the kids to read, but theslum dwellers think she aims to convert the tykes to Christianity. Naturally, her purity of intent soon becomes apparent tomost of the skeptical Hindus, and her career as a savior of the slums is offand running. Some of her former students even elect to join her, creatingconsternation among their parents and the convent higher-ups. This is, afterall, a caste-bound society and upper-class girls touching the untouchables,even in Jesus’ name, is frowned upon. Soon enough, though, Teresa’s mission issuccessful enough that she gets the Vatican to let her break free of theconvent and establish her own independent Missionaries of Charity, which leadsto more conflict with the Hindus but also to the beginnings of her worldwiderenown for saintliness. The film’s biggest problem is indicated by its title. MotherTeresa did leave behind a trove of letters. Though she wanted them burned, aselection that was published posthumously revealed her prolonged spiritualstruggles and sense that she was wholly removed from God. A few of these missivesare quoted briefly in the movie, but they are completely at odds with what wesee on screen, where there’s zero evidence of the protagonist’s internalconflicts or devastating doubts. Stevenson’s performance as the nun relies on a stoopedposture, vaguely Yugoslavian accent and that blandly benign smile. Doubtlessshe was not given the material for a more complex portrayal. Some films onfaith preach only to the converted. This one may leave even some of thoseunmoved. A final note: The film’s music is credited toCiaran Hope,but unless the copy provided for review contained temp tracks, some of it seemsto have been lifted directly fromHans Zimmer’s score for “The Thin Red Line.”