The Dutch directorAnton Corbijnis especially, if notuniquely, qualified to offer insight on the theme of the photographer and hisor her subject. Before he began his motion-picture directing career with 2007’s“Control,” Corbijn was a meticulous and well-respected still photographer whoshot some of the arts’ most enigmatic and intriguing figures, including CaptainBeefheart, Bjork,Miles Davis,Robert De Niro, Peter Hammill, U2 (that’sCorbijn’s imagery on the group’s “The Joshua Tree” album), Gary Lucas, and manyothers. The aforementioned “Control” was a sensitive and bracinglyunconventional account of the life of Ian Curtis, the Joy Division singer whowas, among other things, a major inspiration to Corbijn. Advertisement Corbijn’s “Life” is his fourth feature picture and in asense his most ambitious, tackling the still highly mythologized andidolized 1950s film acting sensationJames Dean, focusing on a few weeksbefore the 1955 film “East of Eden” premiered and made him into a particularlycombustible superstar practically overnight. “Life” tells the story of Dean andDennis Stock, an ambitious photographer working freelance for the late,lamented, large-format photocentric print magazine Life (hence the movie’sdouble-meaning title). The future icon is played byDane DeHaan, while Stock isplayed by the bigger contemporary starRobert Pattinson. The two meet almost-cuteat a Hollywood party at directorNicholas Ray’s house; Ray is considering Deanfor a part in his next film, while Stock is looking for work away from the redcarpet. Stock spots a t-shirted Dean trying to be invisible at the pool bar;the two start exchanging lines and for a good portion thereafter theirexchanges look like a form of flirtation. What we really have, as it turns out, is two lost soulsliving in a fishbowl not of their making, and kind of wondering why they’rethere, and how they’re gonna get out of it. DeHaan plays Dean as a kind ofhaunted smart-aleck, deigning to take nothing too seriously but generallyregarding the world as a bully that’s taken away his puppy at the same time. Inan interview promoting “East of Eden” he idly disparages a Western that laterturns out to have been a big hit for the studio head Jack Warner (played as acourtly thug byBen Kingsley), who subsequently advises Dean that if he wants acareer he needs to begin behaving in a more “intelligent” fashion. Stock,meanwhile, makes okay money working with fellows he calls the “red carpetgorillas,” but wants to make art of his own, and sees Dean as the ideal subjectfor a photo essay. And so the two form an uneasy alliance, trekking to New Yorkand then to Dean’s home in Indiana to capture some unstaged moments in … life. And, yes, the real-life photographer Stock took thereal-life still of Dean with his overcoat collar up, strolling through adeserted Times Square at sun-up. One of the most reproduced photographs of thepost-war period, Wikipedia calls it, and I’ve no reason to doubt them. ButCorbijn’s movie is not as much about image-making as you might expect, and tobe frank, the movie’s limited means of production don’t provide Corbijn withthe opportunity of restaging that shot with pinpoint accuracy. The movie is,rather, about different forms of ambition, and the way that ambition can beself-defeating. “He can’t get out of his own way,” Dean confides (he thinks) toa family member of Stock during their Indiana sojourn. Pattinson is, as ithappens, very good at playing needy, and he succeeds beautifully in making hischaracter sympathetic without being particularly likable. (In this film,Stock’s back story has him becoming a father at a potentially ruinously youngage; here, he's portrayed as relating to his seven-year-old kid as kind of analien—it's rare to see a movie nowadays that depicts poor fathering skills somatter-of-factly.) Advertisement Corbijn, as has been his custom in directing features, goesfor mood and feel rather than narrative momentum, although his scope is clearlyhemmed-in by the production’s budget; there’s not much here in the way ofeffective ‘50s-New-York evocation. But the actors and their exchanges ringtrue, and by the time the film reaches its lonesome conclusion, the resonancesare eerie. Dean will go on to become a legend, almost literally, given that hisnext two films, “Rebel Without A Cause” and “Giant,” both American cinematicmonuments, were released posthumously. And Stock will live a long andsuccessful life as a photographer, his stills of Dean giving us what would turnout to be rare glimpses into the person behind the screen icon. Life can beawfully odd sometimes.