“The World of Kanako” contains elements of “Bad Lieutenant,”“Oldboy” and even “The Searchers” but filtered through a lens that’s so coveredin grime and blood that many people will consider the nihilistic trip not worththe effort. It’s a film that’s tempting to dismiss because of its bleak,misanthropic viewpoint on the world, but that would be discounting the qualityof the filmmaking and the riveting performance at its center. Based on AkioFukamachi’s “Hateshinaki Kawaki,”Tetsuya Nakashima’s “The World of Kanako” issuch an in-your-face experience that its opening credits includes wordssprawled across it like the oldAdam West“Batman,” and those words are “Kill!”and “Fuck!” It sets a tone. Advertisement Lest you think “The World of Kanako” is a playful homage ora stylish ride, be warned. This is a movie with enough gore, rape, murder, druguse and horrible behavior to makeTakashi Miikeblink. It is not an easy watch.And it does feel sometimes like excess for the sake of excess. But then starKoji Yakushowill do something unexpected emotionally or Nakashima and cinematographerShôichi Atô will find a striking image and the movie will win you back. Like thecharacters who are constantly either in love or murderous rage, Nakashimapushes and pulls at his own audience. The great Yakusho (“13 Assassins”) plays Akikazu Fujishima,a retired cop who seems to live for nothing. Not long ago, he caught his wifehaving an affair and plowed into their car before pulling the man from the vehicleand beating him. He hasn’t seen his daughter Kanako (Nana Komatsu) in a longtime, pops pills and has taken to vomiting in rainy alleys. When he learns thatKanako is missing, he is given new purpose, although his misanthropy makes himsomething of a loose cannon. As he descends to a world of drugs andprostitution to try and find Kanako, Nakashima flashes back and forthchronologically to tie the two timelines together and reveal what happened toKanako. From the beginning, “The World of Kanako” is designed in away to be unsettling. The opening scenes with close-ups of sweaty facesspurting lines like “I love you” and “I’ll kill you,” set the dual themes ofthe piece—love and violence—but they do so in a way that’s discomforting.There’s a sense of displacement and confusion, especially for the first act,that’s not unlike a late night in a club. You barely hear snippets ofconversation over the loud music, and Fujishima and editorYoshiyuki Koikedon’thold a shot for more than a few seconds. Even scenes of dialogue between tworelatively normal characters—like when Fujishima is talking to Kanako’sclassmates or her doctor—are cut together from several angles. Advertisement At first, Fujishima feels just like a straightforward anti-hero,the bad cop trying to do one last good thing, but that interpretation changesrelatively quickly. He’s not a hero. He’s the kind of guy who, while stayingwith her to help find his daughter, rapes and beats his ex-wife. He picks up ahooker who he drunkenly calls his daughter’s name. Yakusho is fearless, playingmost of the film hunched over, bloody and sweaty like a man who has literallytaken himself to the brink of death and no longer cares what happens to him. It’ssuch a daring performance that it makes the violence of the piece more visceralbecause we believe this man is capable of surviving anything and doing anythingto get his daughter back. There’s a parking garage shoot-out/stab-out thatneeds to be seen to be believed. It’s “Oldboy”-claw-hammer-scene insane. Admittedly, I grew tired of the nihilism of “The World ofKanako” long before it was over, and I have a high tolerance for that sort ofthing, so that has to be taken into account when assessing the overall product,but the quality of the filmmaking never flags. You just have to ask yourself ifthe journey to this ridiculously violent world, however well-constructed, is one worth taking.