If someone asked me about America as Iunderstood it, I’d play them Interpol’s “Turn on the Bright Lights” and tellthem this made the world just a tiny bit straighter for me after 9/11, andscored my first relationship. I’d tell them my great grandmother ran away fromher impending marriage and joined the circus. I’d relate the story of my heroesAndrew Sarris and Molly Haskell, and how gorgeous I’d always found it that twokindred spirits found each other despite their apparent differences. I’d tellthem that our country was where studio filmmaking was perfected, and that I’msometimes a little worried that its rewards keep people placated while the richget richer and gun violence runs rampant. Emmett Till,Elaine May, theRosenbergs, Stanley Kauffmann, MichaelBrown, Warren Zevon,Charles Burnettand Eugene McCarthy. The good and the bad.That’s the America I know. Everyone has a different version of the land theylive in, and they only know so much, but that little bit contains multitudes.That is the impetus behindMiguel Gomes’ latest film "Arabian Nights" … or, maybeseries of films is a more apt description. It’s a six-hour movie with a tonaland thematic through-line split into three two-hour sections. His wish is totell the world about the Portugal he knows and the many, many pieces that makeit whole. Advertisement It begs pronouncement, first and foremost,that "Arabian Nights" should be watched all at once. Its parts, though cheerfullybeguiling on their own, sing a more coherent song when watched end to end. Theyconclude powerfully after six hours. That’s not to say you should wait if youdon’t want to. They’re delightful experiences, breezily stylish and full oflife, but there’s a reason Gomes felt the need to make as much of this film ashe did. There’s a lot of Portugal, much of it being driven into poorly kept historybooks by the current government, and he wanted to pay tribute to all of it. "Volume 1, The Restless One," as he’ssubtitled it, is most overtly about the Portuguese government’s version oftrickle-down economics and the way it crushes hope among the working class. Weopen on a shipyard, the subject of a labor strike. Gomes observes the sad,damp workplace setting unused while on the soundtrack we hear the stories ofmen who used to animate the big cranes. The giant machines slumber as everyworker tells us what it meant to have a job, to keep the country humming. Thenslowly the accounts turn dark. Broken bones and chipped teeth from strikebreakers start appearing. We see a lonely news crew covering the incident, onegathers, days after the worst of the violence has subsided. That’s why Gomes ishere, physically, spiritually and morally. To make sure that this story will becovered in more depth than a single news crew can manage. That’s why "ArabianNights" is six hours long. That strike is one piece of a jigsaw puzzle that,once completed, depicts misery, violence, avarice and confusion, but also hope,freedom and solidarity. Gomes and his crew come next, filmingthemselves in preparation for their undertaking—making the movie we’rewatching. The camera finds Gomes sitting alone on a bench surrounded by hiscrew. After getting a sickly look on his face, he shiftily excuses himself fromhis seat and runs away from his crew. Impotence, he calls it, in voice-over.Terror at not knowing how to continue with the film. “I’m stupid andabstraction gives me vertigo,” he offers as the reason why he can’t link thestrike at the shipyard to something else that interests him, a plague ofhornets decimating the local bee population. Then he tells both stories simultaneouslyand the link presents itself, as if by magic. Not so abstract any longer. Gomesbegs that the viewer remember the confidence he instills in this flourish as heweaves the complex tapestry that is his Portugal. He has many vignettes, manytangents, many fables, parables and modernized myths in store, and if youremember how neatly he can tie together bees and striking laborers, you’llnever forget that all of this vertigo-inducing abstraction will become a strongwhole. Advertisement Gomes informs us that the stories thatfollow are told by Scheherazade, the fabled princess, who gave herself a stayof execution by telling her murderous husband fairy tales for 1,001 nights.Every night she takes a speed boat to an island of women who tell her newstories to bring back to her husband, the grand vizier, to distract him fromkilling her. Scheherazade is played byCrista Alfaiate, who smiles as herdirector describes her beauty, is announced by the sweet sounds of “Perfidia,”and, above all, she is Portugal, the one Gomes and his heroes wish to preserve.She tells three stories in "The Restless One." One is about a group of bankerswho wish for unyielding erections and, of course, get more than they bargainedfor. One is about a rooster who won’t stop yodeling at inconvenient times. Itturns out he has a story of his own to tell, about a pre-adolescent lovetriangle. Finally, we check in with a trade unionist whose stomach rebelsagainst him as he tries to collect the tales of three recently unemployed men.This is the final section of part one and it plays kind of like an episode of "Parks and Recreation" written byFranz Kafkaand directed by Aki Kaurismäki.Each of these stories slowly unfurls its metaphoric underpinning and meaning inmodern Portuguese politics just in time for the next fable to begin. Part one of "Arabian Nights" has many wildcomponents and even though they adhere to their own set of aestheticprincipals, they make for a strange two-hour movie (which is why it’s best towatch it with parts two and three). And yet this buffet of colorful characters andgently surreal symbols all bear the unmistakable stamp of Gomes, the restlessone. His retelling of Portugal’s identity crisis is glued together with his wrysense of humor, cinephilia and knowledge of the seductive allure of all thingsuntouched. He wants us to know that even though his land is corrupted,mercilessly set upon by politicians and ruthless police forces, there is gloryleft in the land and people, and, occasionally, justice finds them. By treatingmodern crusaders as part of a cycle of myths, he makes their struggle heroicand worthy of being told again and again like the legends he draws inspirationfrom. Nebbish union organizers take the place of swashbuckling heroes, eventhough doubts and pains gnaw at their insides. They’re fighting, in their ownway, to maintain the health of a nation. Gomes, the director, is doing all hecan to help by chronicling a dozen different melancholy episodes in the fightfor a better tomorrow. The Portugal that Gomes wants the world to see is a prisoner, but ithas so many stories to tell, it could never remain in bondage.