The opening and closing sequences of "Every Thing Will Be Fine," the firstfiction feature from German directorWim Wendersin almost a decade, are amongthe most masterful he’s created, and over the course of his long career he’screated quite a few such scenes … and, more to the point, quite a few such wholefilms. But bear with me. The opening sequence sees young writer Tomas (James Franco)seeking space to create in a fisherman’s hut on a frozen lake. Dispirited,unproductive, he tools around on land a bit, having intermittent tetchy phoneconversations with his girlfriend Sara (Rachel McAdams). Driving in a snowstorm,he’s distracted, and has an automobile mishap. He’s relieved to find acompletely intact, but very shaken up child propped right next to his frontbumper, and walks the boy to the remote farm house up the hill, from which hewas no doubt darting out with his plastic sled. Once they get to the house, theother shoe drops when they meet the boy’s mother, Kate (Charlotte Gainsbourg).There’s almost no dialogue, only a calm command of cinema language, conjuringsuspense, dread and poignancy, enhanced by Wenders’ expressive use of 3D, a format he also used for his spectacular 2011 dance documentary “Pina.” Advertisement So far so good, at least as far as the movie is concerned.Not so much for Tomas, who’s traumatized by the accident to the extent that hechecks out on life big time, ending in a hospital bed after what Sararecognizes as a half-hearted suicide attempt. So, yes: this is a movie in whichJames Franco plays a white, male, mostly-self-tortured artist, coping with amajor spiritual crisis. What could be worse? In theory, I agree with you. And in practice, “Every ThingWill Be Fine” wears a certain preciosity on its sleeve, starting with thetitle, with its deliberately broken “Everything,” oy. One might suspect The NewSincerity in action, except that Wenders has always been a one-hundred percentsincere filmmaker, whether creating such acute stories of existential anxietyas “The American Friend,” luminous, mysticism-laden parables of love like“Wings of Desire,” or atrociously soft-headed meditations on being a man out oftime, as in his dire 2008 “Palermo Shooting,” his most recent fiction featureand not a particularly good omen for this one. “Every Thing Will Be Fine” is in a very real sensethematically quaint, and too often the screenplay, byBjørn Olaf Johannessen, isspectacularly verbally maladroit, not to mention vague. “Neither of us is fine … we want differentthings in life … I just want to write …” is the sort of thing the performers haveto work with for the first half of the movie. As irritating as the commonplacesare, and as distractingly bad as the dialogue gets, glints and glimmers ofperception and feeling find their way out from the 3D frame. Gainsbourg’ssingle mom character, an illustrator, has a quiet, enigmatic dignity, and thescenes at the center of the film between her and Franco seem to want to takethe narrative in a more expansive direction, away from the commonplacesolipsism of Tomas’ character, who by this point has moved on from Sara andinto a relationship with Maria Josée Croze’s Ann, herself the mother of a younggirl. The narrative, as it happens, moves across a span of twelve years, anddoes go to some disturbing and unexpected places. Tomas’ encounter with Saramany years after the fact is satisfying in a way the filmmakers perhaps did notintend, but I can’t be too confident about that. And Franco actually does mostly alright by his possiblyimpossible character. His inspired work in “Spring Breakers” notwithstanding,he’s been frittering away his credibility as a dramatic actor for some time, but given the lack of detail he’s got to work with here, he’s not a presenceyou want to eye-roll off the screen. Although the point in the film at whichhis performance needs to gather strength—a tense kitchen-table confrontationwith another male near the end—is exactly the point where he trots out hisstoner squint-and-smirk; not really the right choice. Elsewhere he’sfine, and particularly fine when his character is called upon to examine hisown lack of affect. Advertisement “Every Thing Will Be Fine” is far from a perfect film. ButWenders is trying to do new things within the confines of a pretty standardEuropean art-film scenario, and the viewer can see he’s not approaching thematerial as though it’s rote; he’s really trying to use the camera to getthrough the feelings of loss the characters suffer. Wenders is also the authorof a book of essays called “Emotion Pictures,” and he once again brings somehonor to that concept with this flawed but intriguing work.