As thoseof you who have either an encyclopedic knowledge of obscure holiday traditionsor easy access to Wikipedia know, Krampus is a figure from European folklore withorigins stretching back to the days before Christianity who is essentially theevil twin of jolly Saint Nicholas—while Nick rewards the good children withpresent and ribbon candy and such, he would be charged with punishing the badones for their misbehavior in various nasty ways. It would appear that Krampushas now aligned himself with a force even darker and more malevolent thanhimself—a Hollywood agent—because this year has seen him as a part of not onebut two major films. In the anthology horror film "A Christmas HorrorStory," he went after an especially unpleasant family one grim ChristmasEve and even did battle with Santa Claus himself. Now he takes front and centerin the new horror-comedy hybrid "Krampus" to show both another familyand the multiplex crowds what can happen if they should dare to lose faith inthe holiday spirit. Advertisement As thefilm opens, a nice and normal family—harried parents Tom (Adam Scott) andSarah (Toni Collette), mildly cynical teen daughter Beth (Stefania LaVie Owen)and Max (Emjay Anthony), a pre-teen boy who still believes wholeheartedly inthe season—are bracing themselves for the arrival of Sarah's sister, Linda(Alison Tolman) and her family, a grotesque bunch of loud and abrasive gun nutsand Pittsburgh Steelers fans that include a loutish husband, Howard (DavidKoechner), a cranky aunt (Conchata Ferrell) and several nasty cousins who pickon Max for still believing in Santa. When they steal his letter to Santa andread it aloud, a humiliated Max is convinced that the holiday is ruined andrips the note to shreds and tosses it outside into the wind. Almostinstantly, a freak blizzard crops up that cuts off the heat, electricity andphone and seems to leave the group completely isolated. To make matterscreepier, some strange-looking snowmen mysteriously appear in the backyard.Finally, Beth ventures out in order to visit her boyfriend, and when Tom andHoward go out to look for her, they are attacked by some creature burrowingunder the snow. After they return home and endure a couple of additionalattacks, Tom's elderly mother (Krista Stadler) explains the legend of Krampusand her own personal encounter with him when she was but a child. From thereon, the once-fractured family is forced to come together in order to fend offan extended siege from such nasty creatures as demonic dolls, hellaciousharlequins and evil elves, all of which are mere opening acts to an appearancefrom the big bad himself. "Krampus"was co-written and directed byMichael Dougherty, whose previous effort wasanother holiday-based horror film, the cult favorite "Trick 'rTreat." In the same way that earlier film paid homage to suchclassics as "Tales from the Crypt" and "Creepshow" with itsanthology format, this film constantly bows at the altar of"Gremlins," theJoe Danteclassic that managed to find the perfectblend of creepiness, subversive humor and genuinely earned sentiment, to make ita seasonal favorite for viewers who prefer their Christmas entertainment tohave a little more bite to it. "Krampus" tries to work along thosesame lines but never quite manages to hit the same heights. Although there aresome amusing moments here and there and a couple of nicely effective scarybits, it is never quite as darkly funny nor as frightening as it would like tobe—this is no doubt in part of the bizarre decision to release it with a morefamily-friendly PG-13 rating (even though no sane parental units would deem itto be acceptable viewing for the wee ones) instead of the R that it was probablydesigned to get in the first place. The story also meanders quite a bit,especially in the first half, before finally settling down to the business athand—this is the kind of story that might have been more effective as a leanand mean hour-long "Tales from the Crypt" episode than as a 98-minutemovie that takes a long time to finally kick into gear. Advertisement Despitethe occasional rough patches, there are still some things about"Krampus" that I did like quite a bit. Although the humor is notalways successful, I liked the fact that Dougherty played the material in arelatively straight manner and resisted the urge to go for a more campyapproach throughout. Along those same lines, I admired how actors like Scott,Collette and even Koechner went about their roles with as much seriousness asone could possibly muster while rassling toothy clown dolls and armed anddangerous gingerbread men. The flashback in which the grandmother (KristaStadler is excellent throughout) recounts her childhood memories of Krampus isconveyed via an animated interlude that is beautiful and haunting in equalmeasure. Although Dougherty's decision to shoot most of the attacks in quickcloseups don't always allow viewers to get good looks at the variousmonsters on display, the glimpses that we do get are mighty impressive. Finally,without giving anything away, I will note that the film manages to wrap thingsup on a note that is almost ridiculously perfect. In thegrand scheme of holiday-related films of note, "Krampus" is neitheras creepy as "Love The Coopers" nor as sadistic as "HomeAlone" and it feels as if it is maybe one or two rewrites away from beingthe alternative classic that it clearly wants to be. It still has itscharms—certainly more than one might expect based on Universal's decision torelease it without any advance press screenings—and just enough things goingfor it to warrant a mild recommendation. Besides, do you think I want to get onthe bad side of Krampus by panning his movie? I may be naughty but I am notstupid.