“Arabian Nights,”Miguel Gomes’ state ofthe union epic, continues with "Part 2: The Desolate One." The stories in thischapter have a more melancholy tone, less angry and curious than those in part1, more bewildered and sad. They take on the character of gently cautionaryfolk tales like that of Anansi the Spider or Rainbow Crow. Gomes abandons thekind of dreamy abstraction that defined a lot of "The Restless One" in favor of aloping semi-naturalistic irony. There are ghosts, phantoms, apparitions, projectionsand odd fusions of the past and present. If "The Restless One" was about selfishpeople learning empathy by force if necessary, "The Desolate One" is aboutlearning to tolerate lesser evils because there are worse ones just around thebend. Advertisement The first story is about a man named Simão'Without Bowels,’ (Chico Chapas) which I’m sure sounds less gross inPortuguese. He killed his wife, daughter and two other women and then hid fromthe police in a really lovely hill town’s hinterland. Hilariously, everyoneknows where he is and politely puts up with him hiding out in their barns andstealing the clothes off their scarecrows. Gomes describes him as a hero to thetownsfolk, but we don’t see much of that. The point is that simply by evadingauthorities he became something of a man of the people, and if that comes atthe cost of a murdered family, then so be it. But there’s something more slygoing on in this vignette as later connoted by the little episode that followsit, in which the leader of a troop of nature scouts falls to his death during ateam-building exercise. The town Simão hides out in tolerates him becausethey’re far too set in their ways to change just because he’s technically awanted criminal. Take away a pillar of the community, even one that narratorScheherazade (Crista Alfaiate) keeps calling “bastard” and “son of a bitch,”and all would become chaos. The internal workings of the towns in Portugal needto remain intact because the government doesn’t care if they survive or not. Thepolice force, with their machine guns and drones, look like they’ve been sentfrom the future when they descend upon the lush hamlet looking for theirquarry. They don’t belong here, and they don’t care what they destroy carryingout their idea of justice. The second story begins with a handful ofthe most gorgeous images in the whole of “Arabian Nights." A hand-made dioramaof the earth flanked by three moons fades into a purple tile countertopsupporting two glasses of wine. Then we see the penis of a man who recentlydeflowered his new bride (Luísa Cruz). She struts through the house bathed inthe violet glow of the three moons to call her mother and let her know thewedding night was an unqualified success. Her mother (Joana de Verona) is thesubject of this story, called “The Tears of the Judge.” The bride’s mother isthe judge, and she’s across town overseeing a case of property theft. A womansold her landlord’s furniture to pay off debt accrued by her dimwit son.Perhaps he had it coming, as a witness tells the judge that this man callsemergency services 6 times a day just to watch the ambulances go by his house.When questioned the landlord admits this, but says he’s acting under the ordersof a genie, conveniently present in the court. The genie was acting under theorders of the evil man who freed him from the lamp. The judge will look on inastonishment as each new witness indicts some new party in the crime, up and upand up the ladder. The point is pretty obvious and has only one logical conclusionbut Gomes directs “The Tears of the Judge” spectacularly, which nicely rendersits inevitability moot. The point of a story like this is obvious the minutesurprise witnesses start showing up, but Gomes, like Luis Buñuel guestdirecting an SNL digital short, takes such delight in dreaming up eachludicrous new witness (like a talking cow and a dozen courtesans) that thecentral gag never runs out of steam. The final story in “The Desolate One”concerns an adorable dog called Dixie who passes from one owner to the next,each one telling some little story about how the economic crisis, not tomention health-care and a general malaise, has impacted the residents of adingy apartment building. Gomes has fun with the form of this story, but that’sabout all the fun there is to be had as every new human little Dixie encountersis sadder than than the last. We ping pong between the residents of theapartment complexes, getting a humourous, vibrant portrait of an average ad hoccommunity, between prolonged rounds with their neighbors, the “owners” of thepup. Dixie is a mixed blessing to her owners as a dog reminds one of thepassage of time, and the loneliness that makes one seem an ideal caretaker fora cute animal. Dixie is a temporary solution to a longterm problem, andfrankly, she has problems of her own. Advertisement The melancholy that falls over this chapteris hard to shake but its tempered slightly by the love Gomes has for hischaracters, bad habits, ingrained sadness and all. By maintaining a daydreamingdisquiet even as he fluctuates in tone and milieu, Gomes connects his threechapters through the despair of the people; looking for heroes, powerlessbefore corruption, surrounded by ghosts. They feel like something out offolklore, to be dropped in on while we learn a lesson that should have sunkenin hundreds of years ago but always fails to take hold. The sadness that hasfallen over these disparate characters is like the grey skies that hover overthe Portuguese streets. “The Desolate One” hangs together the best of the threechapters of “Arabian Nights” and feels the most coherent, the most touching,and perhaps the most accurate a representation of what it feels like to live inPortugal during the financial crisis. Gomes invites us in to his smoky, shabbyyet hopelessly gorgeous home and waits for the power to go out, the water torun black and the landlord to hammer an eviction notice on the door. If viewersfeel at home, that’s because when the greedy and tyrannical seize power,everyone is equal. It’s up to us to acknowledge it.