I’ll be honest. While I really do try not to form anyopinion at all before watching a film, I approached Netflix’s “The Ridiculous 6” with some understandable trepidation. The stories of a script so racistthat several of the Native Americans involved in the project walked off the set didn’texactly fill me with hope, and Sandler’s comedy track record has been spotty atbest, somehow getting even lazier as his career has devolved into getting studiosto pay for his vacations (“Just Go with It,” “Blended”). When Netflix decidedto not screen it for TV or film critics before it premiered on their streamingservice today, it felt like the final straw. Little did I know how bad it wouldbe. The combined–ismsof a script in which a Native American character isnamed “Beaver Breath” are overwhelmingly unfunny enough, but it’s really only one aspectof the monumental failure on display in a film that is almost bafflingly bad. Advertisement Where do we begin? The recurring joke about a burro withdiarrhea that can spray across the room? The extended bit in which a man scoopsout his right eye? The character who is supposed to be so dumb that he thinkswomen poop babies and says “canty-lopes”and “panty-cakes”? The fact thatVanilla IceplaysMark Twainand actually says, “Make it rain like Twain” as he antes into a poker game? You read thatright—Vanilla Ice plays Mark Twain.How about the multiple occasions in which you can see people likeBlake SheltonandWill Fortelook around and basically say, “Can you believe we’re getting paid for this?” It’s like someonemade a bet that they could take money from a major company like Netflix and dothe absolute bare minimum with it. The best place to start is probably withAdam Sandler’shalf-asleep, horrendous performance—the worst of his career—in the lead role ofTommy, aka White Knife, a man raised by the Apaches to have superhuman fightingskills. Sandler can’t decide if Tommy should be the stoic, leader of this gangof misfits or the wacky Native American stereotype he likely first conceived him as, and so he makes no choice at all outside of "sleepy." He can’t hidehis disdain or complete lack of interest in the project. I get that Sandler ismaking movies pretty much just to keep his friends employed at this point, butwould it be too much to ask to see an ounce of acting effort? Tommy’s journey begins when he meets his father, FrankStockburn (Nick Nolte), just before the old man is kidnapped by a bad guy namedCicero (Danny Trejo). He leaves his tribe to find his dad, discovering alongthe way that Frank was a busy man and Tommy has five half-brothers: Ramon (RobSchneider), Lil Pete (Taylor Lautner), Herm (Jorge Garcia), Danny (Luke Wilson)and Chico (Terry Crews). They form “The Ridiculous 6” and set out to save theirnewly-discovered patriarch. To say that Sandler andTim Herlihy’s script is “episodic”would be an understatement. It’s a series of scenes only loosely connected bycast and location. I’ve seen episodes of “Saturday Night Live” in which thesketches seemed more of a single piece than parts of this film. One minute,they’re learning how to play baseball fromJohn Turturro; another minute they’replaying poker with Vanilla Ice,David Spadeand Blake Shelton. It’s likesomeone put ideas for Western-themed sketch comedy on a board and then Sandlerthrew darts at it to determine its order. The film has no flow, no rhythm, andabsolutely no reason to be 119 minutes. Advertisement And then there’s the broad racism and misogyny of the piece.After the controversial walk-offs, Netflix claimed that this was “satire.” It’snot. There’s nothing satirical about Sandler’s bad Native American accent(which totally comes and goes, by the way) or Schneider’s Hispanic caricature. Sayingthat this is satire is like the drunk guy at the bar telling you how many blackfriends he has after telling a racist joke. Don’t fall for it. There are a pair of good-to-great Westerns coming out in thenext few weeks in theaters that should satisfy your need for gunslingers andhorse-riding. Much has been made of the impact that Netflix has had on the televisionlandscape. Given the fact that “The Ridiculous 6” is the first of afour-picture deal with the company, they seem to have little interest in makingthe same impact in the world of film.