“Star Wars: Episode VII - The ForceAwakens” is the film that J.J. Abrams was put on Earth tomake, as evidenced by the "Star Wars" echoes in his hitseries "Lost,” and the way he kept trying to turn "Star Trek" into"Star Wars." These tendencies could seem cutesy orirritating elsewhere, but they make sense in an according-to-Hoyle "StarWars" movie. This new one, set 30 years after the events of"Return of the Jedi,” is funny, touching, and surprisinglylight-footed. It boasts a lot of familiar elements,including Skywalker family mythology and another Death Star-type weapon, as well as self-aware lines about how thingswork in this series. The film ultimately runs up againstthe limitations of its own nature: like the James Bond films, the “Star Wars”movies are pretty much obligated to revisit certain elements, to the pointwhere they might feel played out even if they hadn’t been raided by other films, TV shows and books (including Harry Potter). But it’s still an exhilarating ride, filled with archetypalcharacters with plausible psychologies, melodramatic confrontations fueled by soaring emotions, and performances that can be described as good, period,rather than "good, for 'Star Wars.'" Advertisement And it’s a treat to see belovedolder characters placed beside new ones in situations that respect Lucas'myth-making but correct his flaws as a storyteller, includingthe default whiteness of his casts. Not only have Abrams and hisco-writers,Lawrence KasdanandMichael Arndt, centered the story on a youngwoman and a man of color (played respectively byDaisy RidleyandJohn Boyega),they've made them so compelling and quirky that the film never seems to be putting an up-to-date wrapping on moldy clichés.Like all of the new characters, they seem to live and breathe. When they earn therespect of Han Solo (Harrison Ford) and Chewbacca (Peter Mayhew) by improvising a solution to atechnical problem, or grab a lightsaber and start swinging, the result is notmerely a crowd-pleasing display of heroics; it’s an affirmation that a good movie with a good heart can serve as everyone’s mirror.(Spoilers from here.)Decades after Darth Vader threw his master down anelevator shaft, the galaxy is still wracked by war. The Republic isstill the Republic, but now they're not-too-secretly financing the rebellionagainst the remnants of the Empire, which has been supplanted by somethingcalled the First Order. The Empire went into retreat in "Jedi" whenLuke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) turned his father back toward the light side of TheForce. But the Empire’s remnants were tenacious. Now that Luke has gone into hiding following a disastrous attempt totrain a new class of Jedi, they've gained strength and audacity, and built a variation of the Death Star that’s embedded in a living planet—basically an artillery cannon with intergalactic range. The re-branded Imperials look and sound even more Nazi-like than the villains fromthe first trilogy. One of the only scenes where Abrams completely overdoesit (which is hard to do in a "Star Wars" movie) is the rally prior tothe super weapon's inaugural blast: the supreme commander of the First Order (Domnhall Gleeson) addresses tens of thousands of troops arranged inLeni Riefenstahlpatterns,jamming his pasty face into the camera and practically spitting into the lens. The plot kicks into gear on thesurface of the desert planet Jakku. A wisecracking X-wing pilot named Poe Dameron (Oscar Isaac)acquires a fragment of a map that reveals Skywalker’s location from anObi-Wan-like elder (Max von Sydow, groomed and costumed to resemble AlecGuinness). He hides it inside his trusty droid, BB-8, a rolling ball with a segmented head that can do dandy vaudeville double-takes, only to be captured by thefilm's chief baddie, Kylo Ren (Adam Driver). Ren is an iron-masked, black-clad,homicidally depressed warrior who flies into room-destroying rages and speaks to the recovered helmet of Darth Vader like Hamlet addressing Yorick's skull. When Ren removes his helmet to reveal Driver's long faceand watery eyes, we may feel as though we're seeing the second coming of youngAnakin Skywalker, who had good in him but gave in to adolescent power fantasies and let the Emperor corrupt him. “I canhave anything I want,” Ren petulantly tells a captive who resists his mental probing. Advertisement In short order, we meet the film'sother new leads: Rey (Ridley), an orphaned scrap-metal scavenger, andthe ex-Stormtrooper Finn (Boyega), a conscientious objector who went AWOLafter watching Ren and his storm trooper armada carry out a My Lai-stylemassacre while searching for BB-8 and his map. Then Rey, Finn and BB-8 escape astrafing run by TIE fighters by piling into Han’s old ship, theMillennium Falcon, which just happens tobe owned by one of Rey’s scrap metal customers, and get captured by a freighterthat just happens to be piloted by Han and Chewie, who just happen to besearching for theFalconin that partof space. As in every“Star Wars” film, this one leans on chance meetings and coincidences, and youjust have to accept them as the sort of things that would happen in a fairy taleor opera—or at the very least, as proof that the galaxy is smaller than itlooks. The Starkiller Base is ten times the size of the last Death Star, but key characters cross paths inside of it so regularly that it might as well be a U-boat. Lucas' prequels balanced light withgathering darkness, and rhymed scenes, situations and shots with the originaltrilogy's, to create a sense of history repeating and inverting itself. Abramsand company have done something similar in “The Force Awakens,” but at the levelof characterization and scene-building. This is a subtler way torevise (or recycle) elements in a popular franchise while finding something newin them, and it explains why this film feels more fully realized thanany "Star Wars" movie since "The Empire Strikes Back"—it's certainly warmerthan the prequels, which often failed at characterization and plot even as theyserved up intricate sequences and haunting images. The map hidden inside BB-8 is this film's equivalent of the Death Star plans hidden in R2-D2 in "A New Hope"; Jakku is basically Tatooine; other planets evoke icy Hoth from "The Empire Strikes Back" and the tropical moons of "A New Hope" and "Return of the Jedi." Wrecked star destroyers poke up through sand dunes; a leathery-skinned reptilian pachyderm jams its snout into a watering hole; TIE fighters loom against boiling sunsets; a thousand-year old temple crumbles beneath an onslaught of laser bolts. This stuff might seem like fan fiction illustrated by calendar art if Abrams didn't balance spectacle with feeling. Rey is the new Luke, but also the new Han, while Finn is a combination of Luke, Han Solo and a C-3PO worrywart. ("Stay calm," Finn says during a tense walk alongside Poe. "I am calm," Poe snarls. "I'm talking to myself," Finn explains.)  But even though Finn is the film's funniest character, the script never goes so far as to turn himinto mere comic relief. Nor does it permit Rey to become a glorified ingenue. Finn and Rey are tormented by believable personal demons and wield their blasters and lightsabers with fervor. You believe they could hold their own against Ren, who can stop blaster bolts in mid-air and spelunk insideprisoners’ minds. And you believe in the reality of CGI'd supporting characters as well, including Andy Serkis' Supreme Leader Snoke, a gollum-esque dictator with a hideous puckered mouth whose hologram image is the size of the Lincoln Memorial, and Lupita Nyong'o's Maz Kanata, a diminutive, ancient pirate whose goggled eyes can see into people's souls. Advertisement Elsewhere, Abrams proves that that he's given as much thought to the larger cultural meanings of "Star Wars" as to its iconic characters, gadgets and spaceships. Many film historians have noted the way Lucas's first film, which came out twoyears after the end of US involvement in Vietnam, flipped that war's scriptupside-down, making defeated Americans identify with “rebels” who wereessentially Vietcong-like guerrillas, and root against an industrialized military whoseliterally-scorched-earth tactics were all too Western. Ashot of a storm trooper roasting a hut with a flamethrower brings the originaltrilogy’s Vietnam obsession full-circle (to Iraq, maybe), evenas the dogfights—many of which are conducted within planetaryatmospheres—reconnect "Star Wars" with the propellers-and-goggles adventures that enthralled Lucas as a child. Like the movie’s countlessreferences to other “Star Wars” setpieces—including both Death Star battles,the Dagobah tree scene from “Empire,” and the creature menageries of “A NewHope,” “Jedi” and “Attack of the Clones"—the historical allusions neveroverwhelm the basic story, which is very much in the spirit of the 1977original: a bunch of nobodies end up saving the galaxy, with a mighty assistfrom a wise elder.These films are a partof American history, cinema history, and our personal history, all at once. The new faces up there on the screenare as compelling as the familiar ones because they remind usthat in the world of “Star Wars,” as in our world, life goes on no matter what.