Great film has the power to convey the unimaginable. We sitin the comfort of a darkened theater or our living room and watch protagonistssuffer through physical and emotional pain that most of us can’t reallycomprehend. Too often, these endurance tests feel manipulative or, even worse,false. We’re smart enough to “see the strings” being pulled, and the actor andset never fades away into the character and condition. What’s remarkable aboutAlejandro Gonzalez Iñárritu’s “The Revenant” is how effectively it transportsus to another time and place, while always maintaining its worth as a piece ofvisual art. You don’t just watch “The Revenant,” you experience it. Youwalk out of it exhausted, impressed with the overall quality of the filmmakingand a little more grateful for the creature comforts of your life. Advertisement Iñárritu and co-writerMark L. Smithset their tone early,staging a breathtaking assault on a group of fur trappers by Native Americans,portrayed not just as “enemies” but a violent force of nature. While a fewdozen men are preparing to pack up and move on to their next stop in the greatAmerican wilderness, a scene out of “Apocalypse Now” unfolds. Arrows pierce airand flesh as the few surviving men flee to a nearby boat. It turns out that thetribe is seeking a kidnapped daughter of its leader, and will kill anyone whogets in their way. At the same time, we learn that one of the trappers, HughGlass (Leonardo DiCaprio) has a half-Native American son named Hawk (ForrestGoodluck). Low on men and hunted, the expeditionleader Andrew Henry (Domhnall Gleeson) orders that their crew return to itsbase, a fort in the middle of this snowy wilderness.John Fitzgerald(TomHardy) disagrees, and the seeds of dissent are planted. He doesn’t trust Henry,and he doesn’t like Glass. In the midst of these discussions, Glass is awayfrom the crew one day when he’s brutally attacked by a bear—the sequence is,without hyperbole, one of the most stunning things I’ve seen on film in a longtime, heart-racing and terrifying. Glass barely survives the attack.It seems highly unlikely that he’ll make it back to the base. With increasinglydangerous conditions and a tribe of killers on their heels, they agree to splitup. Most of the men will go back first while Fitzgerald, Hawk and a young mannamed Bridger (Will Poulter) will get a sizable fee to stay with Glass until hedies, giving him as much comfort as possible in his final days and theburial he deserves. Of course, Fitzgerald quickly tires of having to watch a manhe doesn’t care about die. He kills Hawk in front of an immobile Glass and thenbasically buries Hugh alive. As Bridger and Fitzgerald head back, Glassessentially rises from the dead (the word revenant means “one that returnsafter death or a long absence”) and begins his quest for vengeance. With brokenbones, no food, and miles to go, he pulls himself through snow and acrossmountains, seeking the man who killed his son. He is practically a ghost, a manwho has come as close to death as one possibly can but is unwilling to go tothe other side until justice is done. Advertisement The bulk of “The Revenant” consists of this torturousjourney, as Glass regains his strength and gets closer to home through sheerforce of will. Iñárritu’s Oscar-winning cinematographer for “Birdman,”Emmanuel Lubezki(whoalso took a trophy for “Gravity” the year before and could easily make it threein a row for this work) shoots “The Revenant” in a way that conveys both theharrowing conditions and the artistry of his vision. The sky seems to go onforever; the horizon is neverending. He works in a color palette provided bynature, and yet enhanced. The snow seems whiter, the sky bluer. Many of hisshots, especially in times of great danger like the opening attack and the bearscene, are unbroken—placing us in the middle of the action.At other times, Lubezki’s choices recall his work on “TheTree of Life,” especially in scenes in the second half when Glass’s journeygets more mystical. And that’s where the film falters a bit.Iñárritudoesn’tquite have a handle on those second-half scenes and the 156-minute running timebegins to feel self-indulgent as the film loses focus. When it centers onthe conditions and the tale of a man unwilling to die, it’s mesmerizing. I justthink there’s a tighter version, especially in the mid-section, that would beeven more effective.About that man: So much has been made of this film being DiCaprio’s“Overdue Oscar” shot that I feel like his actual work here will be undervalued.Make no mistake. Should he win, it will not be some “Lifetime Achievement” winas we’ve seen in the past for actors who we all thought should have won foranother film (Paul Newman,Al Pacino, etc.). He’s completely committed in every terrifying moment, pushing himself further than he ever hasbefore as an actor. Even just the physical demands of this protagonist wouldhave been enough to break a lot of lesser actors, but it’s the way in whichDiCaprio captures his internal fortitude that’s captivating—his body may bebroken, but we believe he is unwilling to give up. Advertisement The minimal supporting cast is good, and it’s nice to seeGleeson continue to have an incredible 2015 (also in “Brooklyn,” “Ex Machina”and “Star Wars: Episode VII - The Force Awakens”).Tom Hardyis less effective,often going a little too heavy on the tics (wide eyes, shot up-close), but Ithink that’s a fault of the direction and not one of our best actors. In theend, this is DiCaprio’s film through and through, and he nails everychallenging beat, literally throwing himself into this character thatdemands more of him physically than any other before. What would you do for vengeance? What conditions could yousurmount to get it? Or would you just give up? Our favorite films often dropquestions like these into our lives, allowing us to appreciate the world alittle differently than before we saw them. “The Revenant” has this power. Itlingers. It hangs in the back of your mind like the best classic parables ofman vs. nature. It will stay there for quite some time.