Michael Moore’s surprising and extraordinarily winning“Where to Invade Next” will almost surely cast his detractors at Fox News andsimilar sinkholes into consternation. They get lots of mileage out of paintingMoore as a far-left provocateur who’s all about “running America down.” But hisnew film is all about building America up, in some amazingly novel andthought-provoking ways. In my view, it’s one of the most genuinely, andvaluably, patriotic films any American has ever made. It comes billed not as a documentary but a comedy, and thefirst joke is its hilariously misleading title. You think it anticipates astern, leftist denunciation of American foreign policy. Instead, Moore tells usthe Joint Chiefs of Staff invited him to Washington, DC, to confess that alltheir wars since “the big one” have been disastrous and ask his advice. Heresponds by offering himself up as a one-man army who will “invade countriespopulated by Caucasians whose names I can mostly pronounce, take the things weneed from them, and bring them back home to the United States of America.” Advertisement So, wearing his trademark baseball cap and literally wrappedin the flag, he sets off across the Atlantic searching out peoples to conquerwho have things America needs. Yes, he knows all of these countries have theirown share of problems. But he’s come, he says, “to pick the flowers, not theweeds.” And what a bouquet he assembles. First stop is Italy, where he wonders why “Italians alwayslook like they just had sex.” He finds some reasons for that happy glow intalking to a 30ish couple—he’s a cop, she works for a clothing company—whostart enumerating all the paid vacation time they get. The basic portion,decreed by law, is four weeks, but when you add in government holidays andsuch, it comes closer to eight. They use all this time to vacation in placeslike Miami and Zanzibar, so there’s more than just sex (though we guess there’splenty of that too) to explain their radiant tans and satisfied smiles. After hearing about these citizens’ five months paidmaternity leave, Moore invades two Italian companies—one makes the famousDucati motorcycles—where he expresses mock-disbelief that such largesse couldbe good for business. But the CEOs of both firms genially argue that it is.Workers getting such benefits—and being allowed two-hour lunches where they canhave home-cooked meals—makes for a healthier, happier and more productivework force, they say. A union representative notes that these gains have beenhard-won and still require struggle. But the picture of an industrial situationwhere all sides seem to define success as cooperation, health andla dolce vitaleads Moore to plant theStars and Stripes on one factory floor, claiming the idea for the U.S.A. Before considering the other countries he visits, it’s worthnoting that all of this works so well not only because of the ideas presentedbut also because Moore is such a masterful comic storytellerandskilled polemicist. The film has avery definite point of view, of course; that’s what sets it apart from thebland pseudo-objectivity of our corporate news media. But Moore is cleverenough to avoid preaching to the choir by also voicing the doubts andskepticism that Americans of other political persuasions would have. Advertisement After Italy, several episodes focus on different aspects ofeducation. In France, he visits a provincial elementary school where thestudents’ hour-long lunches look like they come from a top Parisian restaurant;this is not only cheaper than the crap American kids are fed, the chef tellshim, it’s also educational since it teaches about food and healthy eating. InFinland, one of the film’s most startling segments, Moore learns that until acouple of decades ago, student performance was about as lame America’s stillis. Then the Finns decided to revolutionize their educational system. Thereforms included eliminating homework and standardized testing and giving studentsmore autonomy and free time. The result: Finland is now number one ineducational rankings. In Slovenia, Moore inspects a system where a collegeeducation is essentially free, even for Americans who have begun to flockthere, unable to afford the exorbitant costs at home. In Germany, thefilmmaker’s look at health care and benefits for middle-class citizens elidesinto the part of the film that’s most likely to draw the ire of Americanright-wingers, since it concerns how not just education but public policy ingeneral decrees remembering and understanding the Holocaust. Moore says hecomes from “a great country that was born in genocide and built on the backs ofslaves,” and wonders whether such recognition of historical sins might actuallybenefit the U.S. too. Two other countries prompt questions of crime andpunishment. In Norway, Moore investigates a prison system where rehabilitationrather than punishment is the goal, even maximum security lock-ups are tailoredto that end, and the maximum sentence is 23 years (the country now has one ofthe world’s lowest murder rates). In Portugal, he hears that eliminating allpenalties for drug use and treating it as a health-care issue instead hasresulted in decreased use. He also listens as three Portuguese cops talkmovingly about how concern for “human dignity” is the most important part oftheir training. Advertisement Two underlying themes of the film, people power and women’sempowerment, converge in the film’s final two segments. In Tunisia (the onlynon-European and only Muslim country visited), he hears how, after thecountry’s 2011 revolution, the new Islamist government tried to keep aguarantee of equal rights for women out of the constitution, but bowed toinclude it after a massive popular uprising. And in Iceland, Moore learns that theonly financial company that escaped the country’s massive financial meltdownwas one founded and run by women, which leads into a discussion of the transformativebenefits that have come with women gaining positions of power in government andbusiness. Meanwhile, Iceland also differed from the U.S. in sending many oftheir financial bad boys to prison—an idea that the lead prosecutor says wasmodeled on America’s prosecution of malefactors in the savings and loanscandal. That’s the kicker here. As he investigates one potentiallyuseful idea after another, Moore keeps discovering that many originated in theU.S. Thus he’s not stealing from foreigners but reclaiming remedies that oncebelonged to us. Anyone who travels abroad a lot inevitably reflects that,due to many factors, Americans are very insular, knowing far less about othercountries than they know about us. Better national media and education mightmitigate this, but in the meantime, Michael Moore has done thinking Americans agreat service by opening several fascinating windows on the world. One of hismost accomplished and entertaining films, “Where to Invade Next” is rich inideas that deserve to be discussed by liberals, conservatives and everyone elseon the political spectrum in the upcoming election year. Optimistic andaffirmative, it rests on one challenging but invaluable idea: we can do better.