At first, “The Abandoned"—previously known as “TheConfines”—is a relatively promising horror thriller. I dig haunted housepictures: scary movies with fewcharacters that allow tension to come from the environment rather than being distracted by dull performances. Two to three people in a haunted old apartmentbuilding? Sign me up. And for the better part of an hour, director EytanRockaway pulls off the set-up. But just when you think this IFC Midnight flickwill slide into an effective genre track, it flies off the rails in spectacularfashion, getting more unbearable and ridiculous all the way up to its closingminutes. All goodwill from that first hour is dead and buried by the last scene,abandoned by a screenwriter and director who had no idea where to take thisstory. AdvertisementLouisa Krause(“Martha Marcy May Marlene”) plays Streak, abeautiful young woman who takes a job on a two-person overnight security teamin an old, once-gorgeous apartment complex. Streak will patrol the groundsevery two hours while Cooper (a deeply slummingJason Patric) stays in themonitor room and keeps an eye on the screens. Do they really pay teams of twoto work this much high-tech security equipment in buildings that are abandoned?Things are obviously a little suspicious from the very beginning, especially asCooper keeps talking about how he’s been there forever. With its captivatingsetting and solid actors willing to bounce around it, “The Abandoned” showspromise. For about 45 minutes, that promise grows. Rockaway is aneffective filmmaker when it comes to sound design and atmosphere. He alsowisely doesn’t force too much dialogue on his characters, often letting Streakwander the grounds in silence, adding to the tension. When she finds a lockeddoor and hears something behind it, it’s a chill-inducing moment in which onehopes that this film has some secrets instead of just jump cuts and clichés. Ialso liked the few character scenes between the two leads in the monitor room,their faces lit largely by the blue hue of the screens projecting emptinessback at them. Patric and Krause are up to the challenge of doing something withminimal character beats, both capturing people who might take a lonely job toavoid the rest of the world. I’ve missed Patric, once such a vital actor on theindependent scene (go rent “After Dark, My Sweet” and “Your Friends &Neighbors” if you haven’t seen them, and get back to me). It’s also always niceto see the great character actorMark Margolis, who pops up here as an angryhomeless man looking for a place to sleep for the night aka Horror Movie VictimBait. Then, at a moment those of you who venture to see “TheAbandoned” will be able to pinpoint, the film just goes loopy. It’s as ifsomeone opened a Bad Genre Cliché Book and just started ripping out pages andshoving them into this script wholesale. We learn the dark history of thebuilding; we learn that Streak is on anti-psychotics (so maybe she’s imagining itall), and she even says something about being able to see things her whole lifethat she can’t describe. And then Rockaway really goes for it, merging a bit of“House on Haunted Hill” in with his vision. Ghosts, demons, abandoned children—again,it becomes a carousel of nonsense we’ve seen before, but done better. When thewheelchair-bound Cooper is forced to get mobile in the third act, it reallycollapses in on itself with shoddy filmmaking and stupid plotting. It’s at thispoint that I stopped wondering why Jason Patric wasn’t really acting that oftenanymore and started wondering why anyone even starts into the profession atall, knowing they could end up in “The Abandoned.” Advertisement