Although one might not ordinarily see many points of comparisonbetween the two, the worlds of organized religion and professional wrestlingenjoy a surprising number of similarities. Both find themselves in the middleof eternal battles between true believers who take every aspect as the unvarnished truth and naysayers who decry it all as ridiculous fiction; both have inspired any number of battles over the years between those whoinsist that the faith or wrestler of their choosing is the one true one and allothers are impostors; both have seen the faith of their believers exploitedby Donald Trump for his own personal benefit. With the release of “The MaskedSaint,” a film that dares to combine religion and rassling into one oddballpackage, they can now claim to have something else in common in that they areboth institutions that will presumably recover from all of the absurdities ondisplay—quite possibly before I do, in fact. Advertisement As the film opens, Chris Samuels (Brett Granstaff) has decided togive up his career as a masked wrestler known only as The Saint in order tobecome the pastor of a Baptist church in a run-down Michigan neighborhood.(There is a good Knights of Templar joke in here somewhere but it currentlyeludes me.) Sadly, he doesn’t go out with a bang as much as a snap of hisfemur, courtesy of an evil opponent known as The Reaper, but soon he,relentlessly perky wife Michelle (Lara Jean Chorostecki—yes, the same one whopreviously appeared on “Hannibal”) and terrifyingly perky moppet daughterCarrie (T.J. McGibbon) are off on their new adventure. Alas, the church is indisrepair, the congregation is dropping and after Chris winds up alienatingrich blowhard Judd Lumpkin (Patrick McKenna), who has been the church’s mainsource of income as of late, it appears that his first pastorship may be injeopardy when his wife and parishioner Ms Edna (Diahann Carroll. . . yes,Diahann Carroll) convince him to take up the offer made by his sleazy formerpromoter (Roddy Piper) to return to the ring to earn the needed money. Theother parishioners won’t know what he is doing and besides, as Michelle pointsout, “Where in the Bible does it say ‘Thou Shalt Not Wrestle’?” (If it does, it is probably somewhere in Leviticus.) The plan works and soon Chris is supplementing his ministering bywrestling three times a week and earning enough money to help turn the churcharound. The heroic-like violence is not just limited to the ring either—when hecomes across the evil local pimp (Dwain Murphy) slapping around his one hooker(Danielle Benton) for excessive praying and lack of respect, Chris puts themask on and dishes out some vigilante justice on the guy’s skull. This attractsthe attention of what appears to be the only cop in town (Mykel ShannonJenkins), but Chris not only skirts his attention, he manages to continue hisvigilante activities and ruin the pimp’s business by admitting his employeesand customers into the flock. Inevitably, Chris begins to get a swelled headabout his accomplishments and begins acting curtly towards his loved ones.However, as we all know, pride goeth before the technical fall and when thegrumpy pimp trashes the church and Chris is forced to admit his double life tohis parishioners (though he keeps the vigilante stuff to himself), he almostloses everything. However, it mostly clears up for him in time for the bigclimax where all of the various subplots happen to turn up in time to beresolved before watching the now-unmasked Saint try to regain his title fromThe Reaper. At the very beginning of “The Masked Saint,” a title card informsus that what we are seeing is “Inspired by real events.” What this means isthat there was a guy by the name ofChris Whaleywho wrestled professionallyfor about ten years before quitting in 1988 to study theology before becoming apastor and eventually writing the novel on which this film was based. Indeed,the early scenes observing Chris during his first fumbling attempts at bringnew life to the congregation are the best because while they may be a bit onthe ham-fisted side, they at least have a trace of believability to them.However, once the film shifts away from that to focus more on the surreptitiouswrestling and vigilante work, it begins to suggest what “Nacho Libre” mighthave been like if the laughs were all of the unintentional variety (which isstill more than were on hand in the real “Nacho Libre”) before getting intosome weirdly disturbing areas (such as a subplot involving an abusive husbandthat is resolved in a manner that is borderline offensive) that add nothing butextra minutes to a running time that is stretched out far too long for its owngood. Advertisement Although nowhere near as obnoxious as such recent faith-basedofferings as “God’s Not Dead” and “Do You Believe?,” “The Masked Saint” isstill kind of a chore to sit through, even for those predisposed to likeanything that brings together Christian faith and sleeper holds. The only thingabout it worth remembering is that it was the last film made by wrestler-turned-actorRoddy Piper before his death last year. Film fans will remember him as the starof “They Live,”John Carpenter’s brilliant piece of cinematic agitprop in whichhe played a homeless man who discovered that aliens were living among us onEarth disguised as Republicans that could be revealed only by wearing specialsunglasses. In that film, he uttered the immortal line “I’m here to chewbubblegum and kick ass—and I’m all out of bubblegum.” In the case of “TheMasked Saint,” if you have to choose between seeing it or chewing bubblegum, doyourself a favor and stick with the sweets.