“Intruders,” once called “Shut In” on the fest circuit, isan effective home invasion thriller with interesting performances and tightpacing … until it’s not. Like so many genre films, “Intruders” can’t quite figureout its final act, and this one devolves from a thrilling predator-and-preygame into something closer to “Saw.” DirectorAdam Schindleris better withactors than a lot of young horror directors—resulting in the tightness of thatfirst half—but can’t quite get a handle on where the movie needs to go fromthere. The result is a promising film that leaves a bad taste in your mouth,like a meal well-presented on the plate that just doesn’t fill you up. Advertisement Anna (Beth Riesgraf) is an agoraphobic young woman who hasn’tleft the family house in a decade. Her brother Conrad (Timothy T. McKinney) isher only companion, but he’s dying in the film’s opening scenes. A nice Mealson Wheels guy (Rory Culkin) is one of Anna’s few connections to the outsideworld. These opening scenes define Anna’s world well, and Riesgraf is very goodin them, conveying someone who’s actually more scared of going out her frontdoor than anything that might come through it. After her brother’s passing,Riesgraf deftly conveys Anna’s crippling fear, agoraphobia so bad that it keepsher from even going to the funeral. And that’s when the problems start. Three guys (Jack Kesy,Joshua MikelandMartin Starr) who presumed that Anna would be out of the housebreak into it to rob the place. Anna is still home, dressed up for the funeralbut unable to will herself to go. At first, it looks like “Intruders” may playout like “Panic Room,” as the home invaders realize that someone has alteredtheir plans. However, it’s not long before the tables are turned, leaving themen in a basement that’s, well, not your average lower floor. It turns out thatAnna has a dark family history and the men who thought they could steal herfamily fortune are about to confront it. While the three criminals who bust through Anna’s front doorare relatively and predictably defined—one killer, one peaceful guy, one leader—thecast and setting sell the action. We believe Anna is so crippled by fear thather captors don’t even think they have to tie her up to stop her from escaping.The filmmaking in this first act is lean and tight, ably propelled by Riesgrafand the always-great Starr, playing against type here as the maniac who wants toplunge a hammer into Anna’s head. I could do without the shaky camerawork tocapture Anna’s fear (the actress is good enough that the trick is unnecessary),but I was down with “Intruders” until a major incident at the 30-minute markcompletely changes the stakes and dynamic. Advertisement Even then, “Intruders” doesn’t completely fall apart. Itjust gets repetitive and even ugly. There’s a lot of use of the word “bitch”and close-ups of violence. As the piece becomes more “Saw” than “Panic Room,”the characters disappear and we’re left with too little to hold on to.Schindler can’t handle the gore effectively, as scenes like the one in whichblood pours onto Anna’s face just feel gross. It doesn’t need to be that uglyof a film. Don’t get me wrong. I don’t mind gore at all. It just has to feelpurposeful, and it doesn’t here. And then the final 15 minutes are of the “thatonly happens in a horror movie” variety, revealing that the psychologicalelements of the piece have always been mere window-dressing. People are not so easily defined as we’ve been led tobelieve. Just because Anna is a shut-in doesn’t mean she’s weak. And just becauseher home invaders are hammer-wielding tough guys doesn’t mean she can’t turnthe tables on them. That’s the aspect of “Intruders” that works, and thefoundation on which the rest of the film should have been built instead ofinconsistent characters and shock value. You could do a lot worse for a horrorVOD rental this weekend (or even a trip to the theater if it’s near you giventhe abysmal January competition), but you still won’t shake the feeling that “Intruders”should have been a lot better.