They say that war is hell. War relief doesn’t look like anykind of picnic either, and since even beforeErnest Hemingwaydrove a WWIambulance, stories of the mopping up during or after an armed conflict capturethe imagination in a different way than tales of out-and-out combat do. “APerfect Day,” directed by Fernando de León de Aronoa, making his (mostly) English-languagefeature debut, is set “Somewhere In The Balkans” and follows a small group ofNGO-affiliated aid workers in the aftermath of the Bosnian war. Advertisement The first unappetizing task we seeBenicio Del Toro’s Mambrú and his translator Damir (Fedja Stukan) working at is trying to pull a deadbody out of the well of a village. The rotting body has been dropped in onpurpose by hostile parties, hoping to contaminate the local water supply. Therope holding the corpse snaps, leading Mambrú to give the deceased a profaneand embittered nickname. In the meantime, his colleagues at Aid Across Borders(a fictional name for what seems an amalgam of a number of real organizations), a gonzo fellow who goes by the name “B”(Tim Robbins) and idealistic newbie Sophie (Mélanie Thierry) are confronted,while driving, by a dead cow in the middle of the road. B recognizes this as atrap: their vehicle is intended to swerve right into a land mine. But are thefolks who laid the mine hoping for them to swerve left, or right? B can’t quitereverse-engineer their logic, and eventually concocts a novel (or perhaps notso novel) solution with respect to thebovine Gordian Knot. These grisly absurdities are part of the day-to-dayrealities for this crew, although, in keeping with its title, what the viewergets are the hour-to-hour realities. Other dilemmas concern the arrival on theground of an assessment executive named Katya (Olga Kurylenko) with whom Mambrú has had some prior romantic involvement. Mambrú’s not just irritated by herpresence but by the effect he worries her presence might have on his back-homegirlfriend—gossip travels fast in these circles. And then there’s the winsomepre-teen Nikola (Eldar Residovic) who’s had his soccer ball stolen by some slightly olderplaymates, one of whom is determined to protect his loot with another piece ofpresumed loot … his gun. Mambrú would like to do the kid a solid, so takes himunder his wing on their travels. While the medics inRobert Altman’s “M*A*S*H” could be acrass, mean bunch, that film also set the template for the portrayal of reliefworkers in post-WWII cinema. They’re gold-hearted gonzos and adrenaline junkies who maybe even get off on not changing clothes for threedays or more. “Is this your first corpse?” B asks Sophie early on. Lapsing intorhapsodic mode, he continues, “I remember the first time I got laid, butmy first corpse…” The characters in “APerfect Day” don’t get to indulge inmuch eccentricity because they’re too busy banging their wills against bureaucraticidiocy. Sophie’s sanitation expert insists that the well must be cleared evenafter the projects been tabled by coordinators. Mambrú does some logisticallegerdemain that will (theoretically) enable the crew to complete the task, butMurphy’s Law continues to intervene, helped along by both natives and U.N.peacekeepers. A sinister scene in which some Bosnians close a road while somepresumably doomed prisoners stand with their hands up is among several vividsequences. “According to the peace agreement these guys should have beendemobbed by now,” Katya fumes. “You wanna go tell ‘em?” Mambru replies. Shedoes, but it doesn’t do a lot of good. Working with cinematographerAlex Catalán, director deAranoa gets off some very authentic-looking tableaus; the makeshift conferenceroom in a leaky building, with grim plastic chairs and a small puddle on theconcrete floor, is especially evocative. This aspect, and thealert-but-lived-in work by the excellent cast, make “A Perfect Day” register alittle more sharply than some of its more commonplace (but apt) ironies mighthave in the hands of a lesser filmmaker. Advertisement