One wishes "Norm of the North" had a blatant oreven a subversive political message, if only because it might start an argumentabout the ways in which "Hollywood is trying to indoctrinate our kids withliberal propaganda about climate change." That could be fun. Hell, it would be fine if this movie took the oppositeroute, pushing back against those "liberal Hollywood indoctrinationtactics" by giving us a movie that shows the actions of humankind havingabsolutely no negative effects on the natural world. Either way, some peoplewould get angry about what the movie is saying—or, if one wants to put it interms of the modern knee-jerk reactionary approach to political discourse, whatthe movie is pushing on our children. Advertisement Surely, some folks will still find a reason to be madabout "Norm of the North," which is either too lazy or too worried about offending to takeany sort of stance. Some will point out that an evil real-estate magnate isnamed "Greene," and they might cry, "The movie is suggestingthat sustainable-energy efforts are doing more harm than good." Othersmight point to a throwaway joke in which the evil mogul says that his company'spopularity is "rising faster than ocean levels," and they mightwhine, "The movie is saying that man-made climate change is a fact and ishaving destructive consequences" (before complaining about the villainbeing a businessman in the first place). For once, I almost envy these people. It must be nice tohave such strong, go-to emotional reactions to anything that even slightlyveers toward the political, even in the case of a movie as dull andintentionally uncommitted to any cause as this one. Maybe, though, we couldtake this singular instance to come together, join hands and proclaim that thismovie's badness has nothing to do with politics—that its negative impact onkids has nothing to do with agenda-pushing. This is a bland, nearly incompetent animated movie thatassumes kids can only be entertained by the sights of a dancing polar bear, of"cute and marketable" lemmings (the movie's own description) urinatingin an aquarium, and of a bird defecating on people. Can we all agree thatchildren are much smarter than this material believes them to be? Can we allunite under the banner of rejecting movies aimed at kids that push the lowestcommon denominator of humor because they figure children just need a brightly-coloreddistraction for 90 minutes? Is that enough of a big-picture issue on whichpeople in any region of the political spectrum can agree? The story is about Norm (voice ofRob Schneider), a polarbear who can talk to humans and who would rather dance than hunt. He discoversa model housing unit in his icy, Arctic home. To save the region from any potentialbuyers, he sabotages a commercial shoot organized by Vera (voice of HeatherGraham), the head of marketing for Greene Homes, who later starts to have doubtsabout the project. Norm then stows away in the house on its journey back to NewYork City in order to stop Mr. Greene (voice ofKen Jeong) from his plan topopulate the Arctic with people. Advertisement Norm's plan is to pose as a method actor auditioning forGreene's advertising campaign to have "the Arctic sell the Arctic"(Greene instantly realizes Norm is not a man in a bear suit and thenconveniently forgets about it). Greene also has captured the bear's grandfather(voice ofColm Meaney), so Norm also needs to rescue the old bear. The quality of animation is—not to put too fine a pointon it—rather schlocky. The blocky character designs appear rough, as if theartists simply threw a layer of textures on the first-draft geometrical models,and the physicality of those characters looks unfinished, as their jerky movementsseem to skip a frame or three. (Think of the computer animation from a cinematicsequence in a video game from the 1990s, and that's about the level this is.) It'sat least a good reminder that computer animation is not "easier" thanits traditional, hand-drawn counterpart.The look of the movie does complement its content, whichis equally haphazard. "Norm of the North" doesn't care about theenvironment, the animals of the Arctic, or even kids for that matter. It wantsto be "cute and marketable" as cheaply as possible.