This movie, written and directed byAaron NeeandAdam Nee, opens with the “Notice” fromMark Twain’s “Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.” You know (well, I assume youknow), the bit about “Persons attempting to find a motive in this narrative ... ”and so on. The thing an English teacher would tell you was ironic or satiricalor something. At this point you might be thinking, “What’s thismovie called ‘Band of Robbers’ got to do with Huck Finn anyway?” and soonenough it answers your question. Advertisement It’s a story of Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer, only it’stransposed to the present day, set in some unspecified sun-drenched place that’snot the American South as depicted in Twain’s work. And, Huck and Tom are nowyoung men. And the “band of robbers” title isn’t from out of nowhere, thephrase does appear in “Adventures of Tom Sawyer” in a scene where its titlemischief-maker suggests the formation of “Tom Sawyer’s gang.” Does this sound to you like a good idea? If yes, maybeyou’ll enjoy this movie more than I did because I think it’s a bad idea that’sbadly done in at least two ways, maybe three, but however many there arethey’re all fatal. The movie opens with a flashback of Tom and Huck as boys,with Huck reminiscing “Tom was the closest thing to a real family I had. He sawa world where we were just one adventure away from all our problemsdisappearing.” This sounds neither like Twain’s voice for Huck Finn, narrator,or Twain’s own close-third-person prose as used in “Tom Sawyer.” Get used tothat. In this film’s universe, adult Huck (Kyle Gallner) is a soulful and perhapsreluctant reprobate coming off of a prison stint, while Tom (co-director AdamNee) is a cop who uses his position as a cover for trouble-making, all of it,in this case, centered around treasure-seeking. The treasure-seeking is ofcourse a theme in Twain’s original tales, and the film’s first half-hour findsTom engineering a pawnshop robbery scheme that plays out as a very poorimitation ofWes Anderson’s “Bottle Rocket.” Nee’s vocal inflections even takeon a touch ofOwen Wilsonduring the attempted comedy of Tom explaining hismaster plan to his dumber-than-he-is accomplices. The actual robbery iscomplicated when Tom gets saddled with a new partner on his beat the very dayof the robbery. She’s the daughter … wait for it … of a powerful figure in the town … yes … it’sBecky Thatcher, played here byMelissa Benoist, now TV’s “Supergirl,” which mayend up the sole reason this movie winds up being cited any time anywhere. Yes,Hannibal Buressis also in the cast, but he’s so relentlessly poorly used youtend to forget that, or want to forget it, for his sake. In any event, once the poor impersonation of “Bottle Rocket”is over, the Nees turn back to Twain. Not his prose style, or his humor, butrather his plotting and his use of racial stereotypes/conventions. Thenew-fangled character of Injun Joe, played byStephen Lang, who must havegotten tired of cooling his heels waiting for those new “Avatar” pictures tostart shooting, is given a whole new “cultural appropriation” bag. This isproblematic, not because it’s politically objectionable, but because it sucks.Other innovations include the actual cave where the problematic climax ofTwain’s work occurs changing into a motel called “The Cavern.” The Nees clearlywant the liberties they take with Twain to constitute some sort of commentaryon the work and its place in American culture, but their observations aren’tparticularly smart or well-constructed or well-executed. Not that they wouldhave necessarily been better off just making another bro-crime comedy-drama,but … well, I don’t know what they might have been better off doing, frankly.“Band of Robbers” just plain doesn’t work, to the extent that I’m almostregretful that the attempted schoolroom bans on Twain’s work weren’t more effective over the years, as theymight have spared me watching it.