It is not often, unfortunately, that the work of theesteemed Mexican directorArturo Ripsteingets screened in the upper part ofNorth America, outside of the festival circuit. The last film of his I was ableto see was his 1999 adaptation of Gabriel García Márquez’s “No One Writes To The Colonel,” which I felt amisfire. There have been almost ten films between that one and “Bleak Street,”which begins a New York run on January 20. Written by Ripstein’s frequentcollaborator (and wife)Paz Alicia Garciadiego, “Bleak Street” (“La calle deamargura”) is a visionary triumph for the 72-year-old director. Advertisement Shot in what appears to black-and-white digital video,“Bleak Street” conjures a contained labyrinthine hell in the alleyways andgarages and tenement apartments in an impoverished section of Mexico City. Twosets of characters go about their quietly and oddly desperate lives. The firsttwo are a pair of self-described “Lilliputian” masked wrestlers who are the“shadows” of two larger masked wrestlers. “Little Death” and “Little A-K”  happen to be identical twins (we never seethem without their masks, however), and they have splenetic tempers, wives andkids, drunken parents who ostensibly “manage” their careers, and a penchant forpartying, despite the fact that one of them can’t quite get the scratch to gethis costume act together—Big Death keeps riding his “shadow” about the lack ofskeleton pattern on his wrestling gloves. Just around the corner are Dora (Nora Velázquez) and Adela (Patricia ReyesSpindola), two aging prostitutes with challenges of their own—in Dora’s case aspoiled, insolent daughter and a cross-dressing husband, in Adela’s case alack of means that compels her to pimp out the even more aged woman with whomshe shares an apartment. Not for prostitution, but for begging. Hence the movie’s title, then. Ripstein depicts thesesqualid lives with a sometimes near-voyeuristic camera. Shots start off peeringfrom behind iron gratings of staircases and so on. Despite being set in one ofthe world’s most crowded cities, the movie trades in a desolate sense ofdepopulation; the lobby of the hourly motel where Adela and Dora take two tricksas the film approaches its climax looks like an empty cavern, while thewrestling arena prior to the evening’s main event looks like it could be usedas a stage by the woman in the radiator in “Eraserhead.” It’s this sense ofsurreality within a mode of social realism (the scenario, believe it or not,was actually inspired by true event) that gives the movie its off-kilter power. Ripstein, who began his long career working with the maestro LuisBuñuel, has his one-time mentor’s post-idealistic anger but doesn’t adopt aninsouciantly ironic mode to filter it through; his perspective is determinedbut never detached. He is served very well by the movie’s settings. The garagewhere Adela services her johns has "puta"painted on the front iron gate, andis guarded over by the procuress Margara (Emoe de la Parra) who presides overthe space from a wooden school chair/desk. It’s like something out ofexperimental theater, yet wholly credible given the milieu. And of course thecast puts things across in an almost mortifying way. As Adela and Dora, respectively, Spindola and Velázquez dispense with all vanity, flauntingtheir aging flesh with a “screw the world” attitude even as their charactersare subjected to humiliations both malicious and random. The two wind upbecoming their own dupes in a horrifically predatory world, a world that,judging from Ripstein’s choice of closing song, has subsumed his whole country. Advertisement