"Mojave" opens withGarrett Hedlund, with only slightlyscruffier hair and beard than Ted Neeley had in “Jesus Christ Superstar,”complaining to a video camera about the ennui of having been world famous sincethe age of 19, and then elaborating on that discontent: “You wanna be likeByron, you wanna go to Greece, you wanna run guns in Africa," that last bit alludingto Rimbaud’s post-“A Season In Hell” career. Hedlund’s character, Thomas, isthen seen ditching his French girlfriend, ducking calls from businessassociates and family members, and driving a Jeep into the movie’s titledesert, not before buying two gallons of water and two fifths of what I took tobe grain alcohol and being insufferably 80s-rock-star-rude to the old guy whosells the stuff to him. Once in the desert he tries to do away with himself,drinking and yelling “Come on!” to the howling coyotes. The coyotes don’t come.What does come is another person, a stringy-haired, gold-toothed drifter with ashotgun who sits by Thomas’ fire and rambles on about “motiveless malignancy”and complains that Ahab’s wooden leg in “Moby Dick” is an “executive decision,”that is, too obvious. This fellow, Jack, played byOscar Isaac, grins, but as Hedlund’s Thomas, he glowers. What thehell is going on here? Advertisement What can I tell you? When a literary author whose career inbook-writin’ has been kinda-sorta hijacked by Hollywood, weird feelings tend to fester under the affluent lifestyle.For this film, the second to be both written and directed byWilliam Monahan,turns out to not be the Academy-Award-winning screenwriter’s homage to Gus VanSant’s “Gerry,” but a revenge thriller set largely in the fleshpits ofTinseltown. What happens is, surly Thomas gets abit of a jump on Jack, but in the process kills another man, aninnocent—although in the world Monahan envisions, no one is truly innocent,except maybe the six-year-old kid who rather predictably melts into a father’sembrace in the movie’s coda. Discovering that there’s a serial killer roamingthe very desert he’s leaving (he called a limo from a motel), Thomas, remainingsurly, goes back to Hollywood, secretes a revolver in the platform of his TVdisplay (on which he watches the Death Valley climax of Erich von Stroheim’s “Greed,”a totally typical touch), and consults with sleazy lawyer Walton Googins andargues with sleazier studio headMark Wahlberg, and has desultory sex withaloof and not-his-wife French PersonLouise Bourgoin. But this is not enoughHell on Earth for Thomas. Jack finds an address on the abandoned Jeep’sregistration, says “Game on,” and hitchhikes to L.A., to engage in someoccasionally “Strangers On A Train” style cat-and-mouse with Thomas. Monahan’s conception of Thomas as an unlikable butnevertheless idealized imperial artist—the film director as Calvin Klein model,Kurt Cobainand Jim Morrison combined, only as well read as Harold Bloom—isonly slightly less ridiculous than his conception of Jack as Thomas’ secretsharer, an artist-manqué-turned-killer of similar erudition. (At one point Jackbrags of having a “John Stuart Mill”-level IQ.) Thereissomething kind of funny about these two bro-styled men arguingabout the accuracy of a George Bernard Shaw quote while kicking the crap out ofeach other, but I’m not sure how much Monahan knows that, smart as he is. LikeClifford Odetsin his stage play “The Big Knife,” Monahan sees show-biz decadence aspractically apocalyptic. "Who’s the author surrogate?" you may wonder. And thisis part of the point. When Jack says, to a dog, “The Internet is a pain in theass. One can’t give it too much of a place in one’s life. It is a tool,” well,there’s a clue right there. But eventually you figure he’s got to fess up andgive his loyalty to the guy who’s actually got some IMDB credits. Or does he?“Do you know yet which one of us is the Bad Guy?” one of the characters asks ata tense moment; Monahan clearly wants to get maximum mileage out of thatquestion. Advertisement To his credit, the writer-director maintains a pretty decentbalance between his disgust with this Business We Call Show and the movie’sthriller mechanics, which are not entirely well-engineered but do chug along toa not-unsatisfying climax. Of the two leads, it’s the impossibly sly andcharismatic Isaac, as you may have guessed, who has the upper hand, and heclearly relishes reeling off Monahan’s loquacious dialogue, which makes a pointof flirting with the most eyeroll-inducing pretensions. Wahlberg is prettyfunny playing a thoroughly repellent wannabe mogul (movie inside-baseball nutswill be diverted by some obvious clues as to which real-life figure thecharacter might be based on) while Bourgoin is boldly non-ingratiating as theShallow Girlfriend In Peril.