If I were to tell you that the new film “Aferim!” was set in themid-1800s and followed a couple of bounty hunters as they roamed thecountryside in pursuit of an escaped slave, there's a pretty good chance you might assume it took place in America in those grim years before the Emancipation Proclamation and that this movie served as another expose of one of the mostshameful aspects of our nation’s past. In fact, this smart and occasionallyquite powerful drama is set in Romania. But while the location may seem remote,the horrors that arise from the decision of one group of people to treatanother as little more than property—not to mention the twisted ways in whichthey attempt to justify these actions to themselves and those under theirthumbs—remain depressingly universal and even more depressingly contemporarymore than two centuries down the line. Advertisement The film is set in the Romanian territory of Wallachia in 1835, aperiod when it was technically under Ottoman rule but essentially under thethumb of Russia and where the Romani people, essentially itinerant gypsies,were openly bought and sold as slaves. As the story opens, blowhard local constable Costandin (TeodorCorban) has been hired by one of the prominent arealandowners to track down and return Carfin (Toma Cuzin), a slave who supposedly stole somemoney and ran away. Accompanied by his teenaged son Ionita (Mihai Comanoiu),Costandin roams the countryside in pursuit of Carfin, beating, humiliating andotherwise abusing any and all peasants or Roma people that he encounters as away of obtaining information as to Carfin’s whereabouts. Eventually, the twomanage to track down Carfin at the home of an elderly peasant coupleand take him away along with another Roma runaway, a young boy named Tintiric(Alberto Dinache). As it turns out, Carfin is not exactly the subhuman slave thatCostandin like to believe all Roma to be—he tells stories of his journeys toParis, Vienna and Leipzig in the hopes that Costandin will find it in his heartto let him go. When that doesn’t work, Carfin then reveals that the real reasonthat he ran away is that he was caught having sex with his master’s wife—notonly that, it was she who actually did the majority of the seducing—and that ifhe is returned, his master will almost assuredly kill him outright in revenge.Although this story causes Ionita to have second thoughts about their mission,Costandin pooh-poohs those worries and assures both his son and Carfin that hewill utilize his considerable influence as a constable to ensure that Carfinwill only receive a beating and nothing more. Alas, when they finally reachCarfin’s owner (Alexandru Dabija), they discover that not only does he have apunishment in store for Carfin that is arguably worse than death but thatCostandin’s perceived power and influence stands for absolutely nothing whencompared to those who have actual power and influence and who do not hesitateto wield it. (“Aferim,” by the way, is an Ottoman Turkish word that roughlyequates to “bravo!” and its use here is of the decidedly ironic variety.) “Aferim!” is the third feature film from directorRadu Jude. While I cannot say that I am familiar with his previous efforts (“The HappiestGirl in the World” and “Everybody in Our Family”), his skills as a filmmakercannot be denied here. In telling a story that has not really been conveyedbefore cinematically (according to IMDb, there has only been one other film totackle the subject of Roma slavery and that was a now-lost silent feature from1923), he and co-writerFlorin Lazarescuhave created a meticulously researchednarrative that may not be based on any one specific story but which containsenough moments of recognizable human truth, ranging from a palpable sense ofanger (largely directed at the clergy, many of whom were owners of Roma slavesthemselves) to a bracing streak of dark humor (such as a scene involving apriest who unleashes a string of racial and ethnic jabs that take even thecheerfully racist Costandin aback), to give it a sense of realism that is toooften lacking in most docudramas of late. On the directing front, Jude getsstrong performances from his three leads and, with the help of cinematographerMarius Panduru, has created an uncommonly beautiful film (shot in 35mm widescreen and in theglory of black & white) that at times evokes the simple beauties of classicWesterns. Advertisement If there is a complaint to be made about “Aferim!,” it is in thefact that Jude has elected not to give viewers any sort of explanationregarding this key period of Romanian history before dropping them into thenarrative (there is only a title card reading “Wallachia 1835”). Although oneis able to pick up enough details along the way, perhaps a little more historical information might have been helpfulto those for whom this particular era and area of the world remain a mystery.Of course, there is always the possibility that Jude is simply pointing outthat the place and time of his story is hardly the point—what is important isto recognize that the concept of people demonstrating unimaginable cruelty toothers based on such seemingly arbitrary things as race, gender, religion,sexual orientation or birthplace is something that is familiar throughout thehistory of the world and which, sadly, continues on to this day. At one point,Costandin rhetorically asks if people will remember and acknowledge all thethings that he and people like him did 200 years in the future. The answer, as“Aferim!” makes sadly clear, is yes.