The 2008 horror film “Martyrs,” written and directed byPascal Laugier, created a mild sensation on account of being both a kind ofall-torture-all-the-time movie and also aspiring, by the lights of someobservers, to a form of high philosophical seriousness. Laugier’s film, inwhich a victim of childhood torturers takes grisly revenge years later, and afriend who believes this victim was terribly mistaken discovers, horrifically,just who was actually in error, made near-overt references to the observationson death and knowing first put forward by French novelist and philosopherGeorges Bataille. Bataille, while in many respects an impressive figure, wasalso, at least by this reviewer’s lights, a first-rate purveyor of highfalutingobbledygook. I get why genre fan-personswould be eager to invoke his name to legitimize tripe like Laugier’s film, butI wasn’t buying it then. Advertisement And I’m not buying “Martyrs” now, either. For all itsviolence and extreme nihilist posturings, one thing the original did not havewas English-language dialogue, and so screenwriterMark L. Smith, who’sprobably gonna spend the next couple of days saying “Hey, I co-wrote ‘TheRevenant’ too, come on,” and directors Kevin andMichael Goetzhave obliged inthat department. Additionally, they’ve cast Young American Television StarletsBailey Noble andTroian Bellisarioto scream, bleed, get chained up, fire ashotgun, endure near-flayings, and so on. The movie opens with young Lucy escaping a torture chamberin what looks like a disused industrial loft, which the cops then examine inthe dead of night with no lights on, as cops will. She’s placed in an orphanage,befriending Anna, who wants to believe Lucy’s story of a monster pursuing her.Cut to years later; a sun-drenched house in a quiet suburb, where a burly dadis doing some excavating, and mom is sending off feuding teenage siblings. Intothis pleasant valley scene (in which a close-up of a chef’s knifeslicing a tomato is meant to serve as a pre-echo of the gore to come, veryclever) saunters now-grown-up Lucy (Bellisario), who dispatches the whole brood with a shotgun. She claimsto upset Anna (Noble) that these were her torturers. Anna’s subsequentdiscovery that certain wounds of Lucy are self-inflicted leads her to a senseof doubt. But the discovery of a secret basement chamber in the house confirmsLucy’s claims—and much, much worse. If you’ve seen the French-language original you know theplot’s “secret society” twist; in the U.S. iteration this band of explorersinto the unknown—they torture for a cause, you see, which is to unlock thesecrets of life in or after death, or something—is more pseudo-scientific thanphilosophical. The movie also makes some substantial adjustments to the movie’splotline, all of which are very, shall we say, “U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!” Thedirectors also pay lip service to the notion of wrenching tragic poignancy outof Lucy’s predicament, putting heart-pulling strings underflashback/hallucination scenes in which she talks to her younger self. Butnothing works. The substitution of Good Ol' American Girl Power for Half-BakedFrench Pseud Nihilism does nothing to clear up the stench of this project’sfundamental motivations. Despite being pitched at the grindhouses, a movie like“The Texas Chainsaw Massacre” succeeds because its vision was borne out ofgenuine dread and confusion. Both the French and U.S. iterations of “Martyrs”are transparently voyeuristic cheaply ginned-up Guignol peep shows withintellectual pretensions. Of course, ifthat’s what you’re into, dig in! Advertisement