“The Finest Hours” tells the story of a true-life rescueoperation, that, if someone had tried to pitch a similar but wholly fictional storyfollowing its basic parameters, would have been rejected as too implausible. For the most part, it is asolid film that bolsters its innately compelling narrative with effectivelylow-key performances, some genuinely thrilling sequences and only a few moments here and there that lean towards hokeyness. However, I cannot in good conscience fully recommend seeing it because of a presentation issue that renders the film virtually unwatchablefor long stretches. Advertisement Set off the coast of New England, the film recounts the events ofFebruary 18, 1952 when a severe storm arose with such force that two oiltankers, the SS Fort Mercer and the SS Pendleton, were both literally split inhalf. While the Fort Mercer was able to get off distress signals and attracthelp, the splitting of the Pendleton resulted in the sinking of its foresection and the loss of its commanding officers and radios. With the rearsection of the ship taking on water and some of the crewmen contemplating goingout in the lifeboats—a suicidal move considering the size of the boats and thestrength of the storm—it is bookish chief engineer Ray Sybert (Casey Affleck)who figures out a way to steer the crippled remains onto a nearby shoal inorder to give potential rescue parties a little more time in which to find thembefore the rising waters finally overwhelm the generators and leave them deadin the water. Though the Pendleton was unable to send out a distress signal,its existence was miraculously discovered and the commander of a MassachusettsCoast Guard outpost (Eric Bana) sends out a four-man crew consisting ofsailor-with-a-troubled-past Bernie Webber (Chris Pine) and volunteers RichardLivesey (Ben Foster), Andy Fitzgerald (Kyle Gallner) and Ervin Maske (John Magaro)on a 36-foot motorized lifeboat in search of survivors. To local observers,this is a mission destined to at best fail as it is impossible for aboat that size in those waters to get across a sandbar and out into the opensea. Amazingly, after a long and harrowing struggle, Bernie manages to finallyget the boat over the sandbar but loses the compass in the process. With nightfalling and with no way to determine where the ship is going, the mission goesfrom dangerous to downright suicidal, but Bernie and the others are determinedto do their job, and get to the Pendleton to rescue as many of the sailors asthey can. “The Finest Hours” fumbles a bit early on as it goesabout setting up its situation. There is an extended prologue charting thecourtship of Bernie and telephone operator Miriam (Holliday Grainger) that ispresumably meant to give an extra emotional resonance, but doesn't add much to the proceedings. It gets even more frustrating later on when the story keeps cutting back from therescue effort to scenes of Miriam fretting back on dry land.Another problem is the way that the film throws lots of unexplained nautical terminology atviewers—although the storyitself is basic enough to allow people to follow along easily enough, thebarrage of jargon may throw some for a loop at first. The commanding officercharacter is also painted in confusing terms—it is never certain whether he isa martinet, an idiot or, as a newcomer to the area, too unfamiliar with thearea to understand the dangers he is sending his men into. Advertisement Once it gets past these hurdles, “The Finest Hours” turns into aneffective rescue drama that does not necessarily reinvent the genre but goes about its business in a smart and generally compelling manner. DirectorCraig Gillespie, who previously helmed the quirk-fest “Lars and the Real Girl”and the surprisingly good remake of “Fright Night,” does a good job ofconveying the stories of the Pendleton crew’s struggle for survival and thetrials of their would-be rescuers. The performances are alsonicely down-to-earth as well—Chris Pine, who has often stuck me as insufferablysmug, delivers his most likable work to date as Bernie, while Casey Affleck isequally good as the loner engineer who finds the lives of his fellow sailorssuddenly in his hands. Technically, the film is, with the exception of a coupleof somewhat dodgy bits, pretty convincing and the sequence in which Berniestruggles to get his tiny ship over the sandbar is a thrilling moment to behold. And yet, as good as “The Finest Hours” is in its best moments, Iam unable to fully recommend seeing it due to the idiotic decision to convertthe film into 3-D, presumably as a way of pulling ina few extra bucks at the box office. Under normal circumstances, such a movecould just be ignored as a minor nuisance but in this case, it actively goesabout ruining the basic experience of watching it. In the case of “The Finest Hours,” a film that takes almost entirely at nightand in the middle of a ferocious storm, the 3-D conversion is so murky that there are long stretches where it is almostimpossible to discern what is going on up on the screen. If you have theopportunity to see it in 2-D, it is worth a look. But since Disney is clearlypushing the 3-D version, my advice is to skip it and wait for theBlu-ray—sadly, you will not get the full big-screen experience that a film likethis cries out for, but at least you will be able to actually see the damnthing.