It’s been some time since Joel andEthan Coenhave made afull-out comedy. The producing, writing, and directing (and editing, too,albeit under an assumed name) brother team’s last three films, “A Serious Man,”“True Grit,” and “Inside Llewyn Davis,” certainly haven’t lacked for funnymoments. But “Man” was an apocalyptic riff painted on two inches of ivory,“True Grit” a rousing adventure that gradually mutated into a memory play aboutloss and mortality, and “Llewyn Davis” was at least in part a deeply sad storyof inescapable existential failure. In other words, pretty heavy s**t. Theirnew film, “Hail Caesar!” is an exhilarating switchup: A comic fable that’s both deftly clever andirrepressibly goofy. It is also, from stem to stern, the sweetest and sunniestfilm the Coens have ever made. Although you might not guess that from itsopening shot, of a sculpture of a crucified Christ figure in a Catholic church.Bear with me. Advertisement Set in an unspecified period in 20th-centuryHollywood some time between the end of World War II and … well, certainly before1960, although the movie is meticulously determined in certain ways to be asahistorical as possible, “Hail Caesar!” depicts 28 or so hours in the life ofone Eddie Mannix, played here with a beautiful combination of no-nonsensegruffness and tortured tenderness byJosh Brolin.The Coenstook the name oftheir character from the real-life name of one of the more villainous figuresin backstage Hollywood history (he was played byBob Hoskinsin the much darkerTinseltown riff “Hollywoodland”), but this entirely fictional Mannix is aharried ordinary-joe exec, “Head Of Physical Production” for a studio calledCapitol Pictures. Capitol churns out conscientiously produced but hopelesslyschlocky big pictures in a variety of genres, from Biblical epics to cornballoaters. On this day in the life, Mannix has a number of big problems to contendwith. The front office wants Mannix to “promote” singing cowboy Hobie Doyle(Alden Ehrenreich) from B-western star to romantic comedy leading man, much tothe confusion of the eager-to-please Hobie himself, and the consternation ofhis new, exacting director, self-styled studio auteur Laurence Laurentz. Theaquatic musical star DeeAnna Moran (Scarlett Johansson) is newly pregnant,which is making her mermaid costume painful to wear, and on top of that, she’snot sure if she’s interested in marrying the father of her child, a refusal that would constitute a potential PR gaffe for a studio that prides itself on an All-American image. A pair of twin gossip columnists (both played byTilda Swinton) are demanding answers to awkward questions and threatening to gopublic with an awkward story about the studio’s biggest matinee idol, BairdWhitlock (George Clooney). Finally, and most crucially, Whitlock himself hasbeen kidnapped from the set of his Biblical epic, by a group of disgruntled Communistscreenwriters who call themselves “The Future” in their terse ransom note. Inthe meantime, Mannix must deal with his personal demons: he’s a devout Catholicwho almost compulsively goes to confession, much to the exasperation of hisotherwise kindly and indulgent confessor. He frets over having told his lovingwife that he’s going to quit smoking, and then sneaking some cigarettes duringhis stress-filled day. He’s also being aggressively courted by a recruiter fromLockheed, who tempts Eddie with a vested position, the promise of saner hours,and the chance to involve himself with something “serious.” How serious? Thischaracter shows Eddie a shot of a recent H-bomb test at Bikini Atoll. “Lockheedwas there,” he intones. You can tell this character is the devil because healways offers Eddie a cigarette when they meet. The Coens being the Coens, they cannot, or rather do not,resist the temptation to take what were and remain serious mattersnot-terribly-seriously; in their funhouse mirror mashup of 1950s Hollywood, theostensible Red Scare was no “scare” at all but rather a Cold War component inwhich a big Hollywood star might conceivably defect to play “Soviet Man” forMosfilm. Once in the hands of his kidnappers, the amiable but boneheaded Whitlock—poorGeorge Clooney, playing his fourth idiot for the Coen Brothers, is stuck in agoofy Roman Centurion costume and haircut for the whole movie—is instructed inMarxist logic by no less a personage than Dr. Herbert Marcuse himself. (Okay,he’s only referred to as “Professor Marcuse,” but actor John Bluthal is made upto look like the actual figure.) All this cockeyed revisionist history mayinspire scary thoughts ofSteven Spielberg’s (ostensibly) disastrous 1979 comedy “1941.” And to tell you the truth, there is more than a bit of broad,blithely unserious japery at play here. One also recalls “The Hudsucker Proxy”and the Sam Raimi-directed, Coen-Brothers-co-written “Crimewave.” But the CoenBrothers have funnier jokes than Spielberg did, and they also know their realstuff at an almost dangerous level—in the new commentary to “Inside LlewynDavis” on the Criterion Collection disc, writers Robert Christgau and SeanWilentz marvel at a throwaway Max Schactman reference in the movie that flewover the heads of 99 44/100thpercent of viewers, and here theypresent an American Communist Party membership card replete with a Gus Hallsignature. Advertisement You can miss or ignore so many of these details and stillenjoy the exquisite clockwork mechanism of the movie’s plot, and/or the variouspastiches of old movies it offers up in differing manifestations. The goofily,cluelessly homoerotic “No Dames” musical number, starring a game-as-alwaysChanning Tatum, is a highlight, as is the near-pornographic whale-spouting imageryof the Busby-Berkeley-inflected Johansson-showcasing water ballet. (Around thetime of “The Big Lebowski” I asked the Coens if they were influenced by theTechnicolor musical films ofMichael PowellandEmeric Pressburger, and theywere characteristically cagey in response; here they acknowledge their fandomby scoring the water dance to a bit from Offenbach’s “Tales of Hoffmann.”) Themovie’s performances are all spectacularly rewarding, but Ehrenreichpractically steals the picture as the completely ingenuous singing cowboy whoain’t quite as dumb as he seems, not by a long shot. The movie makes light of the dialectic as explained to Bairdby Marcuse, but it also, in its tricky way, continually invites/compels theviewer to use it. Eddie Mannix is a good man who is very good at his job—buthis job seems to be manufacturing schlock. People enjoy schlock, but schlock isarguably an agent of The People’s oppression, so … anyway, one needn’t go on.Suffice it to say that in the cosmology of the delightful “Hail Caesar!”,regardless of the conclusions to which dialectical thinking may lead,acceptance is the key, and Hollywood,while “problematic,” is more a force for good than the military-industrialcomplex can ever hope to be. And, finally, doing the right thing is an instinctshared by both company men and singing cowboys, for whatever that’s worth.