When the results of the once-a-decade British Film Institutepoll of world film experts about history’s best films were announced in 2012,the change that attracted the most notice was at the top of the list. AlfredHitchcock’s “Vertigo,” which back in the day was considered a mere commercialentertainment like many another, jumped to the number one spot, displacingOrson Welles’ “Citizen Kane,” which had occupied it for a half-century andseemed like it might forever. But the change that startled this voter the mostcame a bit further down, where Dziga Vertov’s “Man with a Movie Camera” knockedSergei Eisenstein’s “Battleship Potemkin” out of the top ten altogether. Advertisement While many factors may have contributed to these and otherchanges in the latest poll, it was hard to escape the impression thatan important one was the decline in the teaching of film history, somethingthat many of us who’ve taught cinema studies at universities haveobserved. In 2012, for the first time, the BFI included in its poll not justcritics but also programmers, curators and others whose understandings no doubthave been shaped by the academic de-emphasis on film history in favor of thekind of topical trendiness that may see the cheeky“experimentalism” of “Man with a Movie Camera” as more crucial than thesymphonic grandeur of “Potemkin.” Defenders of these latter-day decisions might well say thattastes change from decade to decade. Which they do.But if supposed film experts no longer have a firm grasp ofEisenstein’s importance, what of ordinary filmgoers, even cinephiles? That wasthe question, surely, faced by     Peter Greenaway    when he set out to make a filmabout the Russian director’s journey to Mexico in 1930 to make the ill-fated,never completed “Que Viva Mexico!” And it was perhaps crucial in Greenaway’sdecision to downplay or ignore various of this potentially fascinatingsubject’s intellectual, cultural, political, artistic and psychological aspectsin order to propose that thereallyimportant thing about Eisenstein’s trip was the chance it gave him to lose hisvirginity as a gay man at the age of 33.Greenaway, the British painter turned filmmaker who turnedout a number of impressive experimental films before springing on the art-filmworld with the witty provocations of early features including “TheDraughtsman’s Contract” and “The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover,”hasn’t made a really good film in a quarter-century, so the disappointments of“Eisenstein in Guanajuato” come as no surprise. Neither does the sense thatGreenaway, still trapped in that cultural moment when “post-modern” meantunwavering whimsicality, unfortunately can’t muster a degree of seriousnesseven when the subject cries out for it. He’s now likeKen Russellon laughinggas, and his latest indeed comes off as “The Music Lovers” replayed not as tragedy but as farce. Advertisement When the film begins, with Eisenstein (played by FinnishactorElmer Bäck, who has a very un-Russian propensity for trilled r’s) andentourage sweeping into Guanajuato like a diva into an opera house, Greenawaygives us clips of the three films that established the Russian’s worldwiderenown: “Strike!,” “Potemkin” and “October.” But the mention of thesemasterworks comes off as little more than name-dropping, as do the appearancesof Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo, who vanish as soon as they welcome thegrinning, frizzy-haired, white-suited maestro to Mexico. Afterwards, Sergeiascends to his sumptuous hotel room (the movie’s primary set), where he stripsnaked, grins some more and begins talking to his penis, which is looking a bitmore robust due to the proximity of Eisenstein’s newly appointed guide,Palomino Cañedo (Luis Alberti), a handsome professor of comparative religion. Greenaway is known for the nudity, piss, shit, vomit, spitand other excretions deployed in his films, but here those mannerisms comeacross almost as tics arrayed decoratively around the central question: Howlong will it be before Greenaway gets the Russian and the Mexican into bed? Ittakes almost an hour, and the result is an unstinting sex scene in whichPalomino (yes, there are plenty of equine jokes) mounts Sergei from behind anddelivers him into ecstasy, after which he plants a small red flag between hisbutt cheeks. The question of whether any such thing actually happened is,of course, a trifling one. In interviews, Greenaway often throws up asmokescreen of hyper-intellectual verbiage around the most crucial assertionsof his films, and this one is no different. How does he know Eisenstein firsthad sex with a man in Mexico rather than, say, the gay demimonde of Berlin? Heoffers no proof. And what evidence does he have of an affair with Señor Cañedo?Eisenstein’s erotic drawings (which contain plenty of heterosexual images too)and his films’ iconography suggest he may have been attracted primarily tohunky young working men. Leave it to Greenaway to make the object ofSergei’s lust a professor of comparative religion! Advertisement But the question of accuracy pales beside the wholeconceit’s essential triteness. Undoubtedly, Eisenstein was smitten with thepure sensuality of Mexico, the bright light, striking colors, luxuriant foliageand exotic animals. He was also was taken with the way that death is celebrated inMexican culture and an event like the Day of the Dead. All of this, according tohis own testimony, had a liberating impact on him creatively, both on hisdrawing and his filmmaking. But Greenaway, in reducing that breakthrough to asingle, silly roll in the hay, falls back on the stalest of clichés. We getvery little sense of Mexico or of Eisenstein’s creative growth during the lengthy,doomed shooting of “Que Viva Mexico!”Two final notes. First, Greenaway sorely misses thecollaboration of composer     Michael Nyman    , whose propulsive music so enhanced hisearly features. Second, “Eisenstein in Guanajuato” features some of the worstpost-synching seen in any recent movie. If Eisenstein, the consummatecraftsman, would have regretted Greenaway’s penchant for pointless and overdonecircular tracking shots, he surely would have groaned at how the actors’ lipshere and the words they speak are so often on different timetables.Note: "Eisenstein in Guanajuato" will be playing at the Siskel Film Center in Chicago starting February 19th.