“We tell ourselves stories in order to live,”Joan Didiononce said. And yet, watching “Misconduct,” a twisty but exceptionallybone-headed—one might even say cretinous—legal thriller, sitting through its story hardly felt like“living.” The movie begins withAnthony Hopkinsas powerful pharmabigwig Denning having an intense spat with trophy girlfriend Emily (MalinAkerman), something about if-you-don’t-do-X-I-will-do-Y, as is the custom.Emily goes off in a huff and Denning soon gets a text with a picture of Emilywith a busted lip. Oops, she’s been kidnapped, and soon Denning is consultingwith a hostage-negotiation expert played byJulia Stiles. Soon Denning is in an art gallery with a duffel bag containing a couplemillion in small denominations, and he winds up punching out a guy who everybody inthe movie’s circumscribed world, and outside of it, automatically knows is justa doofy art dealer. So far, so “Okay” and a shrug. Advertisement Then, there’s a cut, and a title comes up reading “OneWeek Earlier.” One suspects that this movie, written bySimon Boyesand AdamMason, who were also behind 2012’s “Junkie” and directed byShintaro Shimosawa, making his helming debut after dutifullyco-producing some “Grudge” movies and several must-avoid TV series, underwent alittle tinkering prior to its coming out, because the flashback structuringserves no purpose except to open the movie with a relatively flashy sequence ofevents featuring several of its bigger names. In “One Week Earlier” land we arestuck for a while withJosh Duhamel, hotshot low-man-on-the-pole in a big-timelaw firm. He’s just gotten an estate settlement for a widow whose deceased leftno will, so he’s clearly got skills, but there’s also his best pal the computerhacker. “It’s not cheating if the good guy wins,” Ben smirks at one point.Later in the movie, a friend, entrusting Ben with a gun, tells him “If the copscatch you with this, they’re gonna shoot first and ask questions later.” Thedialogue is just filled with little gems like that. Anyway, Ben soon receivesseveral communiqués from the self-same Emily we saw standing up to AnthonyHopkins. She’s an old girlfriend of Ben’s, and she offers him several varietiesof forbidden fruit: the standard-issue carnal variety, and a file of e-mailsthat prove that her boss/boyfriend lied egregiously about a disastrous drugtrial. The married Ben refuses to have sex with Emily (the scene in which hedoes so is accompanied by a shockingly kitschy musical theme, by FedericoJusid, that wouldn’t sound out of place in a 1990s Shannon Whirry softcorepicture) but concocts a hare-brained scheme to bring down Denning using thesehighly-illegally-obtained e-mails. What could go wrong? Ben makes his pitch tohis firm’s boss. That’s none other thanAl Pacino, sporting a goatee (deadgiveaway there) and deploying an outrageous Southern accent (the movie is setin Louisiana, although it lacks for any kind of regional character whatsoever)(also, whatever happened to Shannon Whirry? I wonder sometimes). Mixing things up, narrative-wise, are Ben’s wife, Charlotte (Alice Eve) a busy nurse still suffering after the loss of an unborn child sometimeearlier, and a mysterious, motorcycle-riding Asian man who himself suffers froma wasting illness when he’s not randomly menacing, it would seem, a quarter ofthe film’s cast. Eve’s portrayal of Charlotte is so unyieldinglycatatonic that you have to admire its commitment even as you wonder about itsultimate intent.Byung-hun Leeis credited with playing “The Accountant” in thefilm’s end credits, although you have to have paid super-hard attention tounderstand just why. Such a ragged and desultory muddle is “Misconduct.” Whenthe movie, in its coda, takes a plot point from a pretty famous L.Scott Turownovel and expects the audience to be taken by this “twist,” well, I can’t speakfor anybody else who might be unlucky enough to see this, but I myself nolonger had the energy to be insulted.