We all know the image. It’s when many of us first heard theacronym ISIS. It’s a still of a man in an orange jumpsuit with his executionerstanding behind him in the desert. The man isJames Foley, a conflictjournalist who was kidnapped in Syria and beheaded in 2014, the video of thathorrible act travelling the world as a pronouncement of a new internationalthreat.Brian Oakes’ “Jim: The JamesFoley Story,” an Audience Award winner at this year’s Sundance Film Festival,premiering on HBO this Saturday, February 6th, reclaims that image.It turns it into more than a tool of terrorism, fully capturing the life of aman who knew he was at risk every time he went out on a job. Directed by an oldfamily friend, “Jim” is a moving portrait of courage, but it is most of all aconcerted effort to take back the life of James Foley. Advertisement Oakes accomplishes this by speaking to three distinct groupsof people—Jim’s family, Jim’s colleagues and Jim’s fellow prisoners. Jim’sfamily, who often refer to the director by his first name indicating their highcomfort level with him, still struggle to understand him. Why would he continueto put his life at risk covering stories in war-torn areas? As stories ofkidnapped journalists and embedded reporters being killed continue toproliferate, his family tries to relate to a man who always felt like he neededto be doing something. He would come home, but be restless enough that he hadto go back out again. His brothers, father and mother do a phenomenal job ofcoloring in the emotional details of Jim’s life, letting us get to know him inthe way only a family can. It’s remarkable how open and honest they are abouttheir loss. But a family only knows so much about you, and Oakes’documentary adds another layer in the way the director interviews those whospent time with Jim in the field. We hear stories about his work ethic, hiskindness and his empathy. He’s the kind of man who on doing a story about anunder-funded hospital in Syria (in which they were transporting people via cabto the facility), he raised enough money to get them an ambulance. As sketchedby his colleagues, Jim was a quiet man who felt like he was doing good byshining lights into dark corners of the world. His work ethic really comesthrough in these chapters of the film. The people who knew him in the fieldcome to life when they talk about him. “Jim” transcends typical talking-head documentary when Oakesgets to interviewing the people who were held captive with Foley in Syria. Theyspeak of a man who sacrificed himself for others, always trying to look pastthe horror of his situation. He would create games for them to play incaptivity, and, again, these men who spent days and nights in physical agonyspeak glowingly of a man who changed their lives simply by being a part of it.As captured by “Jim,” James Foley was a man who impacted everyone he met,whether he did so in the comfort of his family home, in the field, or incaptivity. Advertisement “Jim: The James Foley Story” is undeniably, primarily atalking-head documentary—a series of interviews more than anything else—and that’sa type of non-fiction filmmaking that critics are increasingly tiring of,with good reason. We need new ways to tell true stories other than throughinterviews. However, I’m more forgiving of it here for a few reasons. Not only isOakes’ interview approach—the three different groups—more deliberate than atraditional then-this-happened documentary, but it’s an appropriate style for amovie about a man whose greatest impact was on the people he met. And so wehear from those people. In doing so from three definitive angles—family,work, captivity—we get a full picture of a man. Not a victim in an orangejumpsuit turned into a symbol. A compassionate, caring brother, son, friend,colleague and journalist.