The found footage concept may have reached its endpointwith the deeply unsatisfying “The Final Project,” opening in limited releasetoday before expanding nationwide in March. For years now, heavily inspired bythe critical and commercial success of “The Blair Witch Project,” we’ve watchedyoung people with recording equipment fall victim to supernatural forces. Againand again, filmmakers have foregone horror genre elements like atmosphere oreven plot in an attempt to provide a you-are-there experience. At their best,found footage films transport us across that line that gives us the safety of “it’sonly a movie.” At their worst, their faux realism fails to hide the pooracting, lack of screenwriting and incompetent filmmaking. Such is the case with“The Final Project,” an aggravating, meandering journey through a reportedlyhaunted location in the South. Advertisement Local folklore tells the story of the Lafitte Plantation inVacherie, Louisiana, once reportedly the inspiration for Tara in “Gone with theWind” but now a run-down, dilapidated building, overrun by foliage andunoccupied. The idea that a found footage film could play off the era of hit TVshows like “Ghost Hunters” and take us to a real location to mine it foratmosphere is a great one, but director Taylor Ri’chard isn’t really interestedin Lafitte. It’s a background that might as well be a Hollywood set or a housedown the street from you it’s so poorly utilized. It has no personality when itshould really be the star of the film. Instead, we spend an inordinate amount of time with the sixcollege students who have decided to spend the night at Lafitte for agraduation project (it’s not quite clear what the project would possibly look likein the end even after a scene in a classroom in which they tell their teacherabout it). For half of the film’s remarkably short running time, we “hang” withthe six students as they plan their project and head out to Lafitte. Suchhanging includes a bit of character development in a potential love triangle,another possible hook-up, and, well, that’s about it. The “characters” in “TheFinal Project” are the kind of paper-thin movie folk who talk during the entire trip to the plantation about manscapingand how many people they’ve slept with. Andimagine that inane chatter filmed from the back of a van with a bumpy handicam.It’s arguably the scariest scene in the movie. Thin characters and a lack of actual scares is one thing,but “The Final Project” really sinks another level when one considers itstechnical elements. Yes, found footage films are inherently given a lot ofleeway in terms of their visuals, but “The Final Project” is sometimes baffling.People are often shot at torso level, or, worse, we’ll be looking at a wallwhile overhearing a conversation. Remember the end of “The Blair Witch Project”in which the camera is an odd position and we see something only in thebackground? Imagine a movie that’s 50% that. A camera might be left on a tableand we’re staring at someone’s hand on a mouse while we listen to other peopletalk in a fuzzy conversation behind it. Did their teacher never teach them howto frame a shot? Or at least focus on someone’s face? And when the filmmakerschose to make the film at least mildly visually focused, the sound sometimesdoesn’t even sync up and the ADR is inconsistent. Although you won’t notice that given how often you’re looking at feet, torsos and walls. Advertisement Worst of all, nothing in “The Final Project” hasany personality. The performances, save perhaps one (Arin Jones’ Genevieve) areall mediocre at best, but I’m pretty sure they were done no favors by aproduction that feels like it took the first take of everything (I becameconvinced of this when one character mispronounced “apparitions” and I didn’tactually hear someone say cut). Even the horror has no edge. It’s one of thosemovies in which shaky cameras and noises in the distance are meant to conveyfear. If the found footage glut has taught us anything it’s that filmmakersoften think they can fall back on the micro-budget aspect of the genre and failto meet other basic requirements of horror filmmaking. “The Final Project”proves again that they cannot.