To give credit where it’s due, this lukewarm mess of a moviedelivers what its title promises. The directorial debut ofAdam Alleca, whoalso wrote the script (his best-known prior work was writing the execrable 2009remake of “The Last House On The Left,” so yeah, whoop it up) “Standoff” spendsmuch of its relatively brief running time in an isolated house you mightimagine in a Grant Wood painting. On the first floor, Laurence Fishburne's Sade,dressed in black and rolling out a credible Alabama-ish accent, looking to killa young girl who photographed him in the act of killing nearly half a dozenfolks. On the landing to the upper floor, Thomas Jane's Carter—with his new pal, thegirl with the inconvenient photography hobby, whose nickname is Bird (EllaBallentine)—sits with a shotgun, a leg wound, and some untested grit. Advertisement This setting is at least more credible than the film’sopening, in which Fishburne’s character shows up at a funeral burial to shootall the attendees. Killing folks in such a scenario does have the advantage ofoffering an immediately available burial plot, but it’s a little, you know,ostentatious. Unless the filmmaker stacks the deck, as he does at pretty muchevery opportunity here. He even puts a piano in the parlor of Jane’s house, soFishburne can play a little scary music when he’s threatening Jane in thecourse of the cat and mouse negotiations. The interplay between Jane and Fishburne, who are obliged torecite near-reams of tough-guy dialogue that does not even approach what onemight call The Sub-Mamet, (“You don’t have the leverage you think you do,a**hole!” “(F**k leverage! Do the math, dips**t!” and so on) is pretty muchwhat you’d expect from these very professional performers. (Fishburne’s hit manis one of those semi-profound types, even dropping the line from SamuelJohnson—“I forgot where I read it,” he says, nice—about the reason a man mightmake a beast of himself, which I’m betting Alleca got from the first page ofHunter S. Thompson’s “Fear And Loathing In Las Vegas,” in which it’s theepigraph.) The invocation of a dead child in the backstory of Jane's character borders on the amoral/exploitative, but there are worse problems inthe world today. To say that a hapless police officer and an unarmed wife aredeployed like strategic chess pieces in Alleca’s scenario is to give too muchcredit to Alleca’s plotting/gaming abilities; he is plainly a checkers man. Hedoes seem to believe, like many other filmmakers today, that putting both hischaracters and his audience through an endurance test is a sign of integrity.To this end, when both Jane and Fishburne get through their first encounterwith mutual injuries, Alleca cross-cuts between the two foes performingelective self-surgery, complete with wound cauterization. When did this trendstart? I think it was in a “Rambo” movie, but in any case, in “Standoff” thefun is doubled, just to make sure you wince, and the antagonists are shown tobe two tough hombres. It is all very terribly tiresome. Advertisement