If you were to judge the new British import “Nina Forever” basedsolely on a one or two-line description, my guess is that many of you woulddismiss it as nothing more than a joke, and one that's not particularly funny or original. It is true that the basic conceit makes it sound likewhat might ensue if the writers at “Fangoria” were suddenly put in charge ofthe letters section of “Penthouse,” but once it gets past establishing itsadmittedly bizarre premise, it presents viewers with a unique and increasinglycompelling blend of horror, deadpan dark humor and eroticism. "Nina Forever" subvertsaudience expectations at every turn and develops the kind of genuine emotionalpower that keeps it from being just another gory goof. Advertisement Our heroine is Holly (Abigail Hardingham), a 19-year-oldsupermarket checker who is studying to become a paramedic and who is nursing acrush on Rob (Cian Berry), a brooding co-worker who is rumored to haveattempted suicide in the wake of surviving a car accident that took the life ofhis girlfriend. (“I’d love it if my boyfriend tried to kill himself because Idied.”) After being dumped by her own boyfriend for allegedly being “toovanilla” (which is amusing since the guy making this charge looks bland enoughto be a member of a Coldplay tribute band), Holly decides to set her sights onRob and they begin to date. However, when they go back to his place and beginto have sex for the first time, they are interrupted in mid-act by Nina (FionaO’Shaughnessy), who is Rob’s late girlfriend and who inexplicably materializesfrom the mattress, naked and still bleeding copiously from her injuries, toremind Rob that she is his girlfriend—they never properly broke up, afterall—and to sneer at Holly, who she views as an interloper and an unworthy oneat that. (“You’re dead!” “Sure, but I kept my standards.”) Understandably, Holly flees in disgust but because of theattraction that she feels towards Rob (not to mention her unspokendetermination to prove, if only to herself, that she has a dark side afterall), she returns to him and when Nina pops up again when start having sex, sheeven proposes that the undead interloper join in for a threesome. Nina refusesthe offer—she isn’t keen on sharing her boyfriend and can’t feel much ofanything anyway—and the two fall into a battle of wills that finds Nina constantlysniping at Holly (especially in regards to how young she looks) and trying torun guilt trips on Rob. Meanwhile, Holly tries to insinuate herself further intoRob’s life while trying to get rid of all traces of his life with Nina in thehopes that it will inspire her to move on. This is not as easy as simplyrepainting the apartment and constantly replacing the sheets that areconstantly being stained with blood. Not only has Rob been unable tomove on from the tragedy—he still goes to Sunday dinner every week with Nina’sparents (David TroughtonandElizabeth Elvin), even bringing Holly along onetime—but it seems as if Nina has managed to inspire a certain attraction inHolly as well. Genre completists may recall that the basic premise of “Nina Forever”was also seen in last year’s “Burying the Ex,” another film about a triangleinvolving a boy, a girl and a ghoul. That one played the premise entirely forlaughs based largely on cartoonish gross-out moments and a borderlinesmisogynistic attitude that not even the sheer professionalism of director JoeDante could quite overcome. In the case of “Nina Forever,” debutingwriter-directors Ben andChris Blaineseem to be starting out in thatdirection, albeit in a more low-key style—the scene in which Nina makes herfirst appearance is bizarrely amusing, especially in the way that everyone justkind of accepts the unbelievable situation, and enough blood spills out of herwounds to more than satisfy the gorehound crowd. If the film had continuedalong this path, it probably would have grown repetitive fairly quickly but theBlaines have a few surprises in store as the story turns into both a meditationon the perils of letting grief dominate one’s life and an examination of the dangers of trying too hard toprove, both to yourself and others, that you are not what others perceive youto be. There are also fascinating developments in the relationship betweenHolly and Nina, which grows to a point where Holly appears to be more intriguedby her undead rival than in her living boyfriend. Advertisement This is tricky material, to be sure, and the kind that is almostentirely reliant on the strength of the performances to push it through—if theycan’t make it convincing, then the whole thing just becomes a kinky “Tales fromthe Crypt” episode. Happily, “Nina Forever” has been blessed with some of thebetter performances to be seen in the horror genre in quite a while. As Holly,Abigail Hardingham is pretty astounding in the way that she hits every note ofher character’s emotional journey from sweetly awkward to genuinely hauntedwith absolute precision while Fiona O’Shaughnessy is equally impressive in theway that she manages to deliver her caustic snipes without ever letting Ninabecome nothing more than a blood-soaked shrew—she may be dead but in herdetermination to win back Rob, she does have a point.Cian Barry’s turn as Robmay strike some as overly passive but that is a perfect fit for his character,a person who unwittingly allowed his grief regarding the past to destroy hispresent and threaten his future. Elizabeth Elvin and David Troughton are alsostrong as Nina’s devastated parents and the scene in which they finally have itout with the guy who stands as a constant reminder of the loss of theirdaughter is actually the most brutal and horrifying scene in the entire film. “Nina Forever” is a realsurprise—a nifty work that is smarter, funnier, sexier and moreemotional resonant than one might rightly expect it to be. (It is infinitelymore plausible than anything that has sprung from the word processor ofNicholas Sparks.) Those expecting a broad, bloody romp may be put off by itsrelatively serious approach to the material, but those who are in the mood tosee a film that offers an intelligent look at the complexities of humanrelationships and aren’t put off by the sight of a lot of blood will be amplyrewarded. Like the title character herself, “Nina Forever” is the kind of film that gets underyour skin and doesn’t let go.