This Danish movie opens with a scene of high tension thatsoon situates the viewer exactly where he or she would never want to be. InAfghanistan, a group of Danish peacekeepers is scouring a patch of barren land,walking in a narrow, evenly-spaced line. The better not to get blown up by aland mine. Their work is methodical. The soldiers are in constant contact withtheir base, and its commanders and intel officers are providing calm, expertguidance. But of course something bad is going to happen. And something baddoes happen, and the consequences weigh heavily on the commanding officer,Claus Pedersen. Out of a sense of guilt, and more overtly to make up for theabsence of a shell-shocked soldier whom he’s decided to put on camp patrol,Pedersen begins accompanying his troops on their away-from-base rounds. Hedoesn’t know it, but he’s setting himself up for a fall. Advertisement I’m beingdeliberately vague about the plot points of this gut-churning movie, writtenand directed byTobias Lindholm, it’s because I truly believe, beyond any kindof “spoiler-alert” preemptive service-journalism second-guessing, that this isa movie best experienced more or less cold. Pedersen, beautifully portrayed byPilou Asbæk, is a good man—a large portion of the movie’s first half crosscutsbetween him and his wife and kids in Denmark, and his devotion and care isalmost palpable—and arguably a good soldier. But what does it actually mean tobe a “good soldier?” “A War” asks this question in an understated butunambiguous way. The movie could take this ever-pertinent quote from ErnestHemingway as its motto: “Never think that war, no matter how necessary, nor howjustified, is not a crime.” Once Pedersen and his troops are lured, in acompletely appalling way, into a brutal ambush, Pedersen takes action that endsup curtailing his tour of duty, calling him back to Denmark to answer for a warcrime, weighing his own conscience against the dry dictates of a defenseattorney who flatly tells him, “I’m here to create acquittals, not deal withmoral or ethical questions.” This is amovie where it’sextremelyhelpful topay attention, especially during the ambush scene, because Lindholm places theviewer in a noisy, confusing predicament along with the soldiers. It’sdifficult to keep track of what’s going on, let alone make an assessment ofwhat you yourself would do in Pedersen’s place. And again, the consequences ofwhat Pedersen DOES do are nothing less than appalling. Which side are you on?Which side is the movie on? Asbæk is such an appealing actor, and the smirksand pouts of the movie’s prosecuting magistrate Lisbeth Danning, played byCharlotte Munck, areportrayed as on the petulant side, but even here the movie maintains an evenhand: her arguments are cogent, sane, humanitarian, not wrong. The quietauthority Lindholm brings to the portrayal of all the aspects of the story—thesoldiering, the camaraderie, the domestic travails of Pedersen’s wife as shemanages the mutating behaviors of their three young children, the bland yetimposing officiousness of the military tribunal—is exemplary, and puts me inmind of the definite but unimposing style of the Iranian filmmaker AsgharFarhadi, who deals with not entirely similar but nonetheless extremely fraughtmoral conundrums. “A War,” as tough to watch as it can be, is an extremelyrewarding and disquieting experience.