Does America really NEED a sequel to the 2001Ben-Stiller-starring-and-directed send-up of the fashion and supermodelingworlds, and the apparently ceaseless vacuity thereof and therein? For the first20 minutes or so of “Zoolander 2,” the answer is a pretty flat “no.” Thesequel, again directed by and starring Stiller (in the title role of DerekZoolander, whose skull is so thoroughly empty that to call him an “airhead”would be an insult to air), along withOwen Wilsonas counterpart dimbulb malemodel Hansel, and many others from the original cast, begins with a gag that’salready been overplayed in the trailers. That is, the “assassination” of popstarJustin Bieber, who, before he saunters off this mortal coil, takes aselfie while making a signature Derek Zoolander “look.” What follows is amulti-media-personality “whatever happened to?” sequence. Every TV news personalityof note save for maybe Brian Williams adds a sound bite to the story, whichfeatures an arguably tasteless fictional disaster befalling a construction indowntown Manhattan close to the Hudson River. Soon, the audience sees amountain lair in a snowy, windy surrounding, and the title in the lower righthand corner of the screen reads “Extreme Northern New Jersey.” I’m a sucker fora good Jersey joke but I still wasn’t hooked. Advertisement Eventually I was, though. “Zoolander 2” is not justrelentless in its joking, it becomes relentlessly clever in debunking itself asit goes along. “This is barely a movie,” I thought, as it hopped from one inaneplot device to ‘80s music cue to ‘80s music video pastiche to inane plot point.But the observations about the fashion world got, if not sharper (I don’t knowenough about the contemporary fashion world to vouch for accuracy), thendefinitely more pointed, beginning with Kyle Mooney’s portrayal of a hot newdesigner named Don Atari whose aesthetic pinions on how much everything “sucks”and is “stupid.” Derek and Hansel have been persuaded via old friendBilly Zaneto participate in Atari’s fashion show in Rome, lorded over by a spectacularlypompous couture doyen named Alexanya Atoz, played by a nearly unrecognizable KristenWiig. Atoz’s schtick is elaborately mispronouncing English words, and this ishammered almost as insistently as is Derek’s idiocy. The biggest comic risk themovie ends up taking, as it happens, is in scenes in which Derek doesn’t “get”something. And this is entirely the case lot oncePenelope Cruz, playing amember of Interpol, Fashion Crime Division, invests him and Hansel in aworld-saving (or something) mission. Thecharacter is literally so dumb that it’s not funny, except it becomes funny bydint of the way it’s not funny, and so on. And honestly, it then becomes very funny, funny enough thatmy wife observed that she thought I was going to have a stroke, as I waslaughing so much. I was also laughing hard enough that I stopped taking notes.So what more can I tell you about this movie? Well, there are enough cameos inthe damn thing that you might eventually wonder why you yourself are not in it.The bit in whichBenedict Cumberbatchappears as an apparently pan-gendersupermodel named “All” does play fast and loose with theskirting-ideological-objectionability thing, but on the other hand, everycharacter and personage depicted in this movie is utterly, one might even sayabjectly, ridiculous, so for “All” to be depicted as not ridiculous might haveconstituted a progressively active judgment, but also would have been on theinconsistent side. Also, this is a movie that makes an elaborate joke about theprospect of a 13-year-old boy getting his heart carved out of his chest, andthe real-life denizens of the real-life fashion world attaining eternal youthby drinking his blood. Yes, you read that correctly. This is where WillFerrell’s fashion villain Mugatu comes in, along with more cameos, and CyrusArnold, a very nervy tween, in the role of Derek’s wayward, and purposefullychubby, son. As the action gets more furious, and Owen Wilson inparticular is given more and more of an opportunity to unspool his seeminglyinexhaustible comic genius, it might be easy to miss the fact that “Zoolander 2”bites a certain hand with more perspicacity than that displayed in Stiller’s2008 I-hate-Hollywood effort “Tropic Thunder.” It takes a certain something toconvince the likes of Tommy Hilfiger and Alexander Wang to show up and playthemselves, and depict those selves as eager to participate in ritual murderand cannibalism. Sounds pretty heavy-handed as satire goes, but the thingis, “Zoolander 2” has indulged in so many inversions of its narrative by thistime that the insult to fashionistas comes off as both entirely sincere andfutilely insubstantial. But this is all better gist for some future Ivy Leaguefilm studies class than this review. I laughed so much my wife thought I wasgoing to have a stroke. There’s the blurb for you, Paramount. Thanks, Derek! Advertisement