“Deadpool” is the cinematic equivalent of that kid in schoolwho would always say how much he didn’t care what peoplethought of him, but just loud enough so everybody could hear him. It is theteenager who pretends to be too cool to care, but wants you to like him sobadly it hurts. Of course, this is partially a byproduct of being a cog in themachine of the superhero movie marketing system—you unavoidably have to hit afew of the beats of the genre in order to satisfy the audience. However, “Deadpool” fails to live up to the potential of its beloved sourcematerial, subverting its own agenda by becoming a remarkably generic,by-the-numbers man-in-tights flick. “Deadpool” is about a guy who constantlypushes back against the expectations of the superhero, but the movie about himfails to match his rebellious personality. It’s a remarkably straightforwardorigin flick, lacking in true satire of its genre, carried almost entirely byits lead. Deadpool is a fun character, but he’s still in search of a fun movieto match his larger-than-life personality. Advertisement After years in development limbo,Ryan Reynoldsfinally getsa role that he was undeniably built for in this adaptation ofFabian NiciezaandRob Liefeld’s Marvel creation. A lot of pushback against reviews of comicbook films tends to come from those who believe the critic unaware of thesource material’s inherent strengths, so it seems fair to note that I readDeadpoolback in the ‘90s. I know the character has come a long way since then, but the movie iteration isn’tthat far from what I remember about the man in red who refused to play by therules. The movie version of Deadpool will remind you, over and overagain, often in fourth wall breaks, how much he doesn’t care about those rules.The majority of “Deadpool” plays out in flashback after an opening sequence inwhich Deadpool destroys a convoy carrying his nemesis, Ajax (Ed Skrein). Welearn that Deadpool used to be a merc named Wade Wilson (Ryan Reynolds). Wemeet two key figures in Deadpool’s life: girlfriend Vanessa (Morena Baccarin)and best bud Weasel (T.J. Miller). Wade and Vanessa seem to be charting a course to Happily Ever After when Wilson is diagnosed with late-stage cancer. Amysterious recruiter (Jed Rees) offers Wilson a deal: submit to the testing ofthe Weapon X program (which created Wolverine), and save your life. Wilson isexperimented on by Ajax (and his partner in villainy named Angel Dust, playedbyGina Carano) and becomes a mutant, blessed by enhanced fighting andregenerative powers. When Ajax leaves him in a burning building, Deadpoolspends the next year training to hunt him down and kill him. Two X-Men—Colossus(a motion-captured performance by Stefan Kapicic) and Negasonic Teenage Warhead (BriannaHildebrand)—try to intervene to keep the delicate balance between mutants andhumanity from getting too violent, and end up fighting alongside Deadpool. Debut directorTim Miller’s background in animation—he alsodid the amazing title sequence for “The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo”—makes “Deadpool”a highly energetic flick, but to say the piece is lacking in depthwould be an understatement. It’s almost purposefully shallow, regularlycommenting on both its existence and that of other films within the superherouniverse (when Deadpool is being taken back to the X-Men mansion to meet withProfessor X, he asks “McAvoy or Stewart?” and jokes about how many times it hasbeen blown up). There’s a difference, however, between referencing a genre andtruly satirizing, and the writers of “Deadpool” are too often satisfied withthe former instead of the latter. At times, “Deadpool” plays like a “ScaryMovie” version of an "X-Men" flick, which is inherent in the comic book but lesssatisfying when stretched out to feature length. Advertisement It doesn’t help that “Deadpool” vacillates wildly from beingcooler than the genre it now exists within and totally embracing its broadest clichés.Some might argue that “Deadpool's" bipolar approach—alternatelytoo cool to care and downright maudlin with its melodrama—is reflective of thecharacter’s split psyche, but that’s not nearly developed enough to besuccessful. Why not reflect it structurally too instead of delivering such aby-the-numbers story? A memorable villain or even an interesting action setpiece? We couldn’t put those in between the jokes? And every time it feels like“Deadpool” is going to get truly dark, edgy, or interesting, it resorts to acheap joke. Ripping on Limp Bizkit? Calling the bald character "Sinead" TWICE?Half the jokes just don’t land, and they’re the kind of faux-edgy you hear onan open mic night when someone’s trying to get attention. In 1995. Thank God for Reynolds. Baccarin is well-cast and Igenerally like Miller (especially on “Silicon Valley”), but “Deadpool” is ownedfront-to-back by Reynolds, who famously fought to play this character. He jumpsinto the role with everything he’s got, providing an energy that’s oftenmissing from superhero flicks, and he makes even the lamest jokes moretolerable. I just wish the rest of “Deadpool” knew what to do with him.