Douglas McGrath’s “BecomingMike Nichols,” which premieredat the Sundance Film Festival before its airing on HBO on Monday, February 22nd,offers fans of the beloved director a look at the formative years of hiscareer, focusing on four major chapters of his life. Conveyed via twointerviews done with Mike Nichols and theater director Jack O’Brien in thesummer of 2014 at the Golden Theatre, where “An Evening with Nichols and May”premiered in 1960—one in front of a paying audience, and one not—McGrath’s filmattempts to capture how a seven-year-old immigrant from Nazi Germany became oneof the most influential and award-winning directors of all time. Sadly, whilethe film is undeniably interesting on an anecdotal level, it often feels likean interesting special feature on a Criterion Blu-ray disc (it would have fitperfectly on their upcoming release of “The Graduate”) more than it does adocumentary feature that stands on its own. Not only is it disappointinglyshort (72 minutes), but it feels choppily edited at times and O’Brien oftenmisses the follow-up, allowing interesting discussions about directing andfilmmaking by Nichols to go zipping by. The result is a film that’s packedwith stories more than insight. Advertisement So how did this young man “become Mike Nichols”?Unsurprisingly to those who know his history, Nichols and O’Brien start withElaine May. The first fifteen minutes of “Becoming Mike Nichols” are very mucha love letter to Ms. May—her talent, her beauty, her wit. Nichols speaks moreabout what May could do on a stage than how he contributed to their legendarycomic pairing, and it’s interesting to consider that aspect of his career—that Nicholswas incredibly good at surrounding himself with the right talents at the righttime. I don’t mean that as insult, but would Nichols be “Nichols” withoutElaine May,Walter Matthau,Robert Redford,Elizabeth TaylororDustin Hoffman?Probably not. He had an incredible skill for finding talent and then bringingout their best. After the May chapter, Nichols & O’Brien go back for abrief bit about Nichols’ childhood and immigrant background. He speaksinterestingly about seeingMarlon Brando,Jessica TandyandKarl Maldenin “AStreetcar Named Desire” on Broadway and how it changed him forever. To the dayof this final interview he ever gave, he considers that performanceinfluential, calling it “written in fire.” He learned about life watchingmovies at the Beacon, not even speaking much English, and he was working withMay at the Golden whileRichard Burtonwas in “Camelot” nearby, the twobecoming friends. When “Who’s Afraid ofVirginia Woolf?” presented itself as afilm possibility, Nichols took the chance to suggest that he direct it, eventhough he didn’t have the experience or knowledge to do so. He turned to friendAnthony Perkinsfor a three-day crash course in movie photography beforeshooting, and he watched “A Place in the Sun” 150 times. The proclamation thatthere’s nothing you can’t learn about filmmaking fromGeorge Stevens’ filmshould make you want to watch it again. The Stevens line is the perfect example of why “BecomingMike Nichols” falls short of its potential beyond the clearly interestingsource of trivia it provides (there’s some great stuff in the final chapter,especially about the ending, on “The Graduate” too, if you’re wondering).Nichols talks about how much “A Place in the Sun” mattered and we see a briefshot of the movie, and then, zip, we’re on. I so wanted to talk about why andhow “A Streetcar Named Desire” and “A Place in the Sun” were reflected in hiswork, and I’m not entirely convinced that Mike Nicholsbecamewho he was after “The Graduate,” at which point theinterview abruptly ends, without even an analysis of how these early lessonsare reflected through the rest of his illustrious career. We see posters andplaybills for key productions, but that’s it. Perhaps a life and career asimpressive as Nichols’ needs to be segmented to be appreciated, but I’d beinterested if O’Brien and others who clearly know and adore Nichols followed throughon this film’s set-up and talked about what happened to stage and screen after “BecomingMike Nichols.” Advertisement