You knowwhat I always enjoy in a movie? When it opens with the blood-curdling screamsof a woman, and then we see that a bloodied-up dead child is the cause forthose screams. Yup. Just hooks me right in. Unusuallyenough, though, “Forsaken” actually bounces back from its labored, stressfulfirst moments (although if I’m going to pick nits I can’t say that it ever quitejustifies them, even though the event depicted is a crucial part of onecharacter’s back story). It takes a little while. This movie, directed by JonCassar from a script byBrad Mirman, is a Western, and while it won’t quite doto call it an “old-fashioned” Western, one of its pleasures is itsstraightforwardness. It has a solid story to tell, and tells it with nowinks and few, if any, frills. It’s involving and ultimately exciting. Advertisement The bignews about the movie is that it represents, believe it or not, the firstsubstantial pairing of father-and-son actorsDonald Sutherlandand KieferSutherland. The two did appear in a movie before, the largely forgotten 1983Neil-Simon-penned comedy “Max Dugan Returns.” That was when Kiefer was in histeens. He has since grown up into, among other things, a superb, perhaps evengreat, actor. Albeit one who has not appeared in a whole lot of great movies.Here he plays John Henry Clayton, a Civil War veteran long away from home. Whenhe makes his way back to his quiet farm town, his father, the ReverendClayton—played by the elder Sutherland, otherwise what would be the point,right?—communicates several modes of disapproval. In his time away John Henryhas made quite a reputation for himself as a gunslinger. Also, his mother haspassed away, an event that makes the Reverend Clayton’s disapprobation thatmuch more bitter. “You would have come home if she was dying but you wouldn’tcome home when she was living and full of hope," Sutherland’s charactersays. “Wait aminute,” you might be thinking right now. “I thought you said this movieactually got better.” Yes, the-above quoted bit of dialogue is pretty damnon-the-nose, and hard, but if anyone can sell such stuff, it’s DonaldSutherland. He does, and the dialogue does improve. Followers of celebrity, whoare familiar with some of the troubles Sutherlandfilshas had to contend with over the course of his life, will findan extra dimension of fascination in the tense father-son dynamic here, but itworks just as well even if you haven’t read an issue ofPeople Magazinein thelast thirty years or so. Thefather-son conflict might make a good picture on its own, but this IS aWestern, and the conflict arises relatively early. Seems that John Henry hasdecided to study war, and gunslingng, no more. He comes home without a sidearm,starts clearing a field, and generally minds his own business. Fate has otherplans. A land-grabber, McCurdy (Brian Cox) has hired a very loquaciousgunslinger, one Dave Turner (Michael Wincott) to persuade town folk to give uptheir acreage in the anticipation of a, you guessed it, railroad station. Daveis a gentleman of sorts, but the confederates with whom McCurdy has saddled himwith, particularly Frank Tillman (Aaron Poole) are no such beasts. Thesefellows have heard of Clayton, and worry that he might be trouble. When heassures them that he has no intention of doing so, they try to goad him.Complicating matters is a former love of John Henry’s, Mary-Alice (Demi Moore)and her easily-brought-to-jealousy husband Tom (Wesley Morgan). Advertisement And yes,you read that right. Demi Moore is in it, and she’s quite good. While oncenotorious as a disrespecter of period integrity (remember her “ScarletLetter”?) she fits in nicely and gives a modest, convincing performance.Another standout is Michael Wincott, who makes a real character out of his character.All the cast members play off each other beautifully as the tension mounts.McCurdy grows slimier in his machinations, Tillman more out-of-control with hisviolence, Turner more fed up with having to work with amateurs. And John Henrykeeps taking taunts and physical punishment. (He gets smacked around as much asMel Gibsonused to in an average “Lethal Weapon” movie.) You know there’s goingto be a breaking point, and when it comes the action that results is verysatisfying. Director Cassar worked with Sutherland on the TV series “24,” so heknows about building tension, and he also knows when to get out—he brings themovie in at a brisk 90 minutes or so.