There are lot of characters coming to terms with thingsin "A Country Called Home." There's a single father whose ex-wife isan alcoholic and drug addict. The two married and had a child just out of highschool, and now he's working long hours to provide for his son and his mother,who is also an alcoholic. The mother just lost her common-law husband—if oneeven can call their relationship that, considering that she's still married toanother man—after he suffered a stroke as a result of decades of heavy drinking. Advertisement The protagonist of "A Country Called Home" is the deceased man's daughter.She left her father as soon as she was able to do so, and now she has come toTexas from her home in Los Angeles to lay to rest the man she has spent most ofher life hating. The movie also throws in a transgender singing cowboywho, in his first scene, gets a beer bottle thrown at his head for daring totry to entertain people at a local dive bar. Continuing the theme of peopleslowly but surely killing themselves, the troubadour's mother, whose firstappearance is in a hospital bed suffering from a diabetic coma, is eating herway to an early death on account of a diet consisting mainly of unhealthy food. The easy criticism here is that the screenplay bydirectorAnna Axster(her debut feature) andJim Beggarlyprovides too manycharacters, but that's not quite right. It's clear that Axster and Beggarly haveput some thought into how these characters are connected in ways that go beyondthe informal familial bonds that tie them together. Ellie (Imogen Poots) is the daughter of the deceased patriarch.She hasn't seen or spoken to her father in years, and her older brother (SheaWhigham) has all but written off their old man. In his view, their father isdead, but "they just haven't gotten around to burying him yet" (themovie eventually reveals why his children despise him, although it's not toomuch of a surprise). When her dad's "wife" Amanda (Mary McCormack)calls to let her know that her father has died, Ellie travels to Texas totake care of the funeral arrangements. There, she meets her unofficial stepmother, a woman whoseems perfectly polite and accommodating, until she is confronted with even theslightest inconvenience to her daily routine of heavy drinking. Her son Jack(Ryan Bingham) tries to keep the family afloat, and it has become moredifficult since his mother and Ellie's father moved in with Jack and his son Tommy (Presley Jack Bowen). Through Amanda, the screenplay provides an idea of whatEllie's father might have been like, and by way of Jack, Axster and Beggarlyoffer a glimpse of what Ellie's life could have been like if she hadn't lefther own family situation. Jack is essentially trapped by obligation in the sameway Ellie was when she was younger. There's something oppressively cyclicalabout these relationships. The connections stand on their own, which makes itunfortunate that Jack eventually becomes a potential romantic interest forEllie, who has an uncaring boyfriend (Josh Helman) at home. The developmentundermines the more interesting thematic connection between the two characters. Advertisement That brings us to Reno (Mackenzie Davis), the transgendersinger. He and Ellie become fast friends, and while the character's presencehere doesn't seem to fit at first, the reasoning becomes apparent. He's yetanother character held back from his potential by the self-destructive natureof a loved one. Reno is the most fascinating character of the bunch, partiallybecause he seems relatively out of place and also because he is the one characterwho appears to have the desire and the capacity to escape his circumstances. These characters collide and coalesce in their sharedmisery. Axster and Beggarly have a solid grasp on the emotional links betweenthese characters, but there's a growing sense that the screenplay is chartingtheir paths toward a specific resolution. The first time we see Ellie'sfather's station wagon, for example, it's almost as if Axster is setting up themovie's inevitable final shot. The third act in particular becomes an awkward mixture ofbroad comedy and pathos. It's an intentional shift in tone to bring the storyto its more hopeful conclusion, but the screenplay overcompensates. A memorialservice becomes an all-out brawl. Reno gets revenge on a prejudiced storeownerby means of an elaborate prank, which offers nothing for these characters orthe story except a brief interlude before everything falls into place. PoorJune Squibb, who plays Ellie's biological grandmother in a tender performance, becomesthe butt of an unnecessary pratfall that leads to the punch line of a runningjoke about Ellie constantly finding herself at the local hospital. In general,the performances are fine, especially the ones from McCormack and Davis, who,respectively, turn potentially unsympathetic or gimmicky roles into characterswith more depth than we might anticipate. The central problem with "A Country CalledHome" is neither the performances nor even the characters. It's thetransparent ways in which the movie conjures easy resolutions to issues that itotherwise does a fine job convincing us are not so simple.