There are movies about ugly, vile people, and there areugly, vile movies. “Triple 9” is the latter. Turning his interest in macho nihilism that he explored moreeffectively in “The Proposition” and even the flawed “Lawless” to bank robbers and the Russian mob, director JohnHillcoat again assembles a stunning cast of household names and proceeds towaste almost all of their talents on an under-lit, increasingly ridiculous,generally ineffective dirty cop movie. It is a film that cribs openly fromMichael MannandSidney Lumetwithout understanding what really makes eitherdirector work. Occasionally, the overwhelming talent of the cast will elevatethe material, but not nearly enough to shake the feeling when it’s done thatyou could use a shower. Advertisement The best scene in “Triple 9” is arguably its first realset-piece, the robbery of a downtown Atlanta bank by former special opsmastermind Michael Atwood (Chiwetel Ejiofor), dirty cop #1 Marcus Belmont(Anthony Mackie), dirty cop #2 Jorge Rodriguez (Clifton Collins Jr.), getawayman Russel Welch (Norman Reedus), and his brother Gabe (Aaron Paul), acharacter who might as well being wearing a red shirt and named “FutureLiability.” Hillcoat and cinematographerNicolas Karakatsanis(“The Drop”)frame the bank robbery beautifully, taking us from the high-pressure of thevault to the getaway gone wrong after a red dye pack explodes. It’s tense,well-shot and sets up the audience for a high stakes thriller that never comes. It turns out the quintet wasn’t there for the money—they weretasked with stealing a very specific safety deposit box by Russian mob mastermindIrina Vlaslov (Kate Winslet), who is now refusing to pay the group until theyperform another job. Irina has control over Michael because Michael has a sonwith Irina’s sister Elena (Gal Gadot) that the Russians are basically holdinghostage, not allowing his father to see him. This plot thread is not onlypoorly-developed, it’s a little morally grotesque in that it feels designed tocreate sympathy for someone who should be a villain, especially when we learnwhat the title means. If you don’t know, 999 is the code for “officer down.” In theirplanning of the second heist, which involves a Homeland Security building, thegroup decides that the best way to distract the rest of the force will be tokill a cop. As they say, every car responds to a triple nine. And they’ll all bedistracted enough to not be able to respond to the new heist. Conveniently,Marcus gets a green new partner in Chris Allen (Casey Affleck). They’ll set upAllen to get killed, and pull off one final job for Irina while the city isdescending on the crime scene. They never bother to consider that Allen’s uncle(Woody Harrelson) is leading the investigation into who they are. Or that theincreasingly unstable Gabe is a problem. Or that their entire plan is based on a lotof coincidences and plot holes that we only see in movies. Advertisement Most of “Triple 9” is shot in close-up and near-totaldarkness. Hillcoat and Karakatsanis mistakenly think that this will compensatefor a lack of character or plot worth caring about. So, we get sweaty, dirty,grimy camerawork, under-lit to a nearly-parodic degree, but none of itresonates beyond showy filmmaking. The film is constantly calling attention toits visual style (or lack thereof) because there’s so little else on which tofocus. Despite casting so many talented people, writerMatt Cookand Hillcoatgive them almost nothing to do. They are cogs in a plot machine with nothing notableabout their characters or back stories outside of the descriptions you readabove. Michael has a kid. Gabe is the junkie. Chris is the new guy.That is it. If Hillcoat is trying to sayanything about macho male behavior, the police force, capitalism, or even theRussian mob, he fails to do so. The forgettable thinness of the characters is problematicthroughout but especially in the final act when one realizes you just don’tcare about these people or what’s going to happen to them. If one subscribes tothe theory that people can learn as much from a bad movie as from a good one,watch the scenes between two of our best actors—Kate Winslet and ChiwetelEjiofor. Neither have the depth of character or artful purpose that thesetwo have brought to films before. And so their relationship, one of thedefining ones of the film, has no resonance at all. To be fair, Anthony Mackiehas so much natural charisma that it shines through every now and then andCasey Affleck sometimes looks like he’s aware of the better film in which thischaracter could play a crucial role. It’s also worth noting that when characterhas to take a back seat—in a few action sequences, including a riveting gang shoot-out,the movie works. It’s when dialogue and an increasingly-ludicrous plot kicks inthat the movie fails in head-shaking ways. Every talented cast member will move on from the errors of “Triple9” and on to bigger and better things. Most of them have already. Follow theirlead.