Food documentaries seem to be almost as plentiful nowadays as new restaurant openings. For all the grousing we U.S. citizens do about jobsand the economy, almost every major urban area in the country seems to have athriving, and in some cases, obnoxious, gourmand or “foodie” culture, and thatculture’s always, um, hungry for the next startling taste. “King Georges,” the directorial debut of longtimedocumentary producerErika Frankel, will prove a frustrating experience for agood number of its viewers, I reckon, because it’s about a restaurant they’llnever be able to go to as opposed to a restaurant they’re very unlikely to everget into although they’d be welcome to try. Its subject is the chef GeorgesPerrier and his restaurant was Le Bec-Fin (approximately: “The Sharp Beak,” asthe master explains), and it was not just the premiere French restaurant in Philadelphia(not really a huge distinction in and of itself in the ‘70s, when the city’smost notable culinary draws were cheesesteaks) but possibly in all the UnitedStates. Perrier, a man of no small consideration of his own work ethic, skills,and achievement, calls it the “only” French restaurant in the United States. Advertisement Frankel’s movie is a brisk (less than an hour and fifteenminutes), fat-free portrait of a culinary artist in changing times. It beginswith Perrier visiting a food warehouse ridiculously early in the morning,chatting amiably with vendors about being part of a dying breed. The volublePerrier speaks in a heavy enough accent that Frankel uses subtitles throughout,and his English still has vestigial idiosyncrasies: a longtime fan of the PhiladelphiaEagles, he’s seen at times in the restaurant’s downstairs bar watching afootball game, and he observes to a colleague that his team scored a touchdownin “the second inning.” But when the going gets tough, Perrier can curse like aBrooklyn born-and-bred longshoreman of the old and scary school. When therestaurant was in its early days and patrons could hear Perrier lose his temperin the kitchen, a maître d' observes, the general reaction was “oh how cute, areal French chef.” Gordon Ramsay’s stardom notwithstanding, kitchen tantrumsare no longer considered adorable, and when Perrier’s arrives, about 20 minutesin, it’s a doozy. Someone has overcooked the galettes, and boom, to the floorthey go, and Perrier huffs and puffs and swears and uses what they now refer toas “ableist” language, using an epithet that once got Britney Spears (of allpeople) into hot water. It’s not pretty, but it’s different from a Ramsayexplosion; it doesn’t have quite the same theatricality. It’s forgivable in asense because it’s entirely sincere. “If I’m hard on other, I’m just as hard onmyself,” Perrier says in the film. From most people that’s a weak and cowardlyexcuse, but Frankel makes it a credible one. The movie also show’s Perrier’shumor, and his talents as a mentor. His relationship with future “Top Chef”winner Nicholas Elmi is depicted as both trying and affectionate. Elmi isinterested in keeping up with the times, and trends. “If we’re not gonna putcream in the sauce … ” he beings one sentence.Quelle horreur!The movie chronicles both the end of an era and the passingof a torch. The account of Perrier’s apprenticeship in Lyon, in the daysbefore (as he puts it) being a chef was “a gentleman’s profession” is brief buteye-opening. And the depiction of an evening’s preparation at Le Bec-Fin isequally revealing, showing that perhaps every great mean is the result ofsquelching dozens of potential disasters along the way to the plating. Thescore, a kind of casual-lite extrapolation of Erik Satie sounds byMichael Montes,is as elegant as the food depicted. Like the 2011 film “Jiro Dreams Of Sushi,”“King Georges” reminds us that a singular dining experience can often be theexpression of a very singular personality, singular temperament, singulardiscipline. Beyond all that, I am rather mournful that I’ll never get to tasteGeorges Perrier’s crab cakes with mustard sauce.