Anchored by a spectacularly committed performance by SarahBolger (best known for TV’s “The Tudors” and “Once Upon A Time”), “Emelie” is atidy and nasty and often effective thriller that doesn’t quite blossom intofull horror. That might come as something of a relief, as this is abad-babysitter movie, one in which three children of fair to more-than-middlingadorableness are threatened and terrorized in increasingly creepy and harrowingways. The movie begins with a terrific hook: the sound of aseemingly self-absorbed Millennial talking into a cell phone, complaining shecan’t go to some social function because she got rooked into a babysitting job.We see the young woman, walking down a suburban street in grey weather. A towncar stops, the driver asks the young woman for directions, the young woman getsoff the phone, starts to try to help, and wham, she’s assaulted from behind andbundled into the car, which drives off. The camera, which was viewing this froma distance, pans left, and the view of the action is obscured by thickout-of-focus tree branches. The direction here, byMichael Thelin, a TV andmusic video veteran here making his first feature, is assured, almostinventive. And now the audience knows, right off the bat, that the babysitter later picked up by suburban dad Dan (Chris Beetem) is not who she seems. Dan istaking his wife out for their thirteenth anniversary (hmmm) and leavingBolger’s “Anna” to look after sullen 11-year-old Jacob and super-moppetyChristopher and Sally. At first the new babysitter seems cool—she liberatesJacob’s game handheld from confiscating mom and tosses it to him with—could itbe?—seductive insouciance. Soon she’s supervising “let’s pretend” games withthe younger kids, letting them tear apart the good living room cushions to makecostumes, and telling them “Pretending is a super power. And when you getreally good at it, nobody can tell you’re pretending anymore.” Things take aneven more “aiiieee” turn during a game of hide-and-seek, in which Jacob finds“Anna” … sitting on the toilet. Advertisement Jacob’s initially presented as a problem child but itbecomes pretty clear that the scenario is going to call for him to step up tosome kind of plate. He looks into the new sitter’s bag and finds out, amongother things, that her name is not Anna but rather, yup, Emilie. At this pointin the film, which has been pretty relentlessly tense and unnerving, someconceptual cracks start to show. Emelie’s a malevolent presence, to be sure,but she’s also someone who wants something, and there’s this thing in movieslike this wherein the ratio of aberrant behavior that’s not useful to thecharacter’s goal and aberrant behavior that IS useful to the character’s goalgoes somewhat askew for the sake of scares. There’s a point where the audiencemember stops thinking, “Yikes, this character is trouble,” and starts thinking,“Okay, what’s the deal with this weirdo?” So, yes, alas, the movie crosses thatline. Worse, once the filmmakers get around to illuminating Emelie’s rationale,the backstory and its attendant components are pretty weak and unconvincingtea. I know it’s not easy constructing a good satisfying basis for yourevil babysitter but they should have put in a little more effort, frankly; it’spart of what would have made the difference between an passable, occasionallyinteresting thriller and a really outstanding one. Jacob does step up to theplate, and the result is reasonably satisfying, but the direction shifts fromtensile to muddy in the run-up to the finale. “Emelie”has enough good stuff in it that I wished I liked it better, and committedgenre hounds may think I’m nitpicking here. I choose to not, however, complainabout the movie’s weird mix of props: when Emelie shows the kids a veryinappropriate video, it’s from a VHS tape, and on a CRT TV; while there’splenty of cell-phone communication here, it’s mostly on flip models, and atouch-tone desk phone features prominently. I fretted a bit about all thisanachronistic hardware, but then I saw in the credits that the movie was shotin Buffalo, New York, and it all made sense; those people hang on to old techout of spite.