Norwegian hit “The Wave” strikes all the expected beats ofan American blockbuster disaster movie like “The Day After Tomorrow” or “San Andreas.”There’s the long set-up in which only one man knows the truth about theimpending destruction. There’s the event itself, designed to amaze audiences with its “could that really happen” intensity. And there’s therecovery final act, in which the world has changed for the characters and theyhave to struggle to get back together. It’s a structure that can be underappreciatedin that if any of these three acts are too long or poorly done, the suspensionof disbelief is punctured and a disaster movie becomes, well, a disasteritself. What’s interesting about “The Wave” is stepping back and consideringjust how well-constructed the whole thing is. The slow-burn build-up is justlong enough, the disaster itself is just harrowing enough and the final act isjust intense enough to keep us engaged. It’s what one would call a “sturdy” genre pic—it doesn’t break any ground (pun kinda intended), but it gets the job done. Advertisement Geiranger is one of the most coveted tourist spots in all ofNorway. It’s easy to see why. The gorgeous views of the mountains and its crystalclear lakes bring new travelers every year. Of course, as the opening newsfootage warns us, any village at the base of a mountain, especially one as bigas Åkerneset, is a ticking time bomb. Over ominous footage of landslideshurtling towards small towns, we hear “It’s only a matter of time before thenext big disaster.” If we’ve learned anything from cinema, it’s that MotherNature hates you and is going to kill you. It’s a wonder we don’t all live inshelters. The canary in this coalmine is Kristian (Kristoffer Joner),the most vigilant employee at a Geiranger warning center. What’s a warningcenter, you ask? Well, the likelihood of a rockslide, and the accompanying wavethat would come careening through the valley should enough water be displaced,demands a staff of people who monitor the land and water. Kristian is leavinghis post, moving to the city with his wife and kids. Of course, he leaves a daytoo late. First, there are just some odd readings about groundwater on themountain disappearing. Then there’s Kristian’s realization that the substratum are shifting so drastically that an avalanche is inevitable. Of course, therest of his staff just think he’s crying wolf. There isn’t a movie if they’renot apprehensive, when, in reality, they’d probably be dying to push the bigred button that launches the siren that warns Geiranger that they have tenminutes before they’re underwater. “The Wave” hits all of the right beats for its genre. There’sthe foreboding score as the camera slowly zooms in on Kristian’s face behindthe wheel, stopped in traffic and just realizing what the latest readingsmeant. There are shots of birds flying in the other direction of the mountain.There’s even a great scene in which one of the analysts is watching a slashermovie on his laptop as lights start to blink red behind him. The Jason Voorheesof “The Wave” is Mother Nature. If there's a criticism of the structure here, it's that the build-up act of “The Wave” is a little too long. AfterKristian knows something is afoot, and we clearly know that he’s right, there’sa bit too much wheel-spinning before we get to the titular event. However, saidevent does not disappoint. Kristian and his daughter are headed for higherground while his wife and son are at the hotel at which she works, trying toget residents to safety before getting trapped in an underground bunker. Whenthe wave hits, it does so with biblical force, and directorRoar Uthaugdoes anexcellent job of keeping the danger tactile. Water rushing into a room orsmashing into a car doesn’t feel like typical Hollywood CGI, which allows thestakes to resonate. He’s been tapped to reboot “Tomb Raider,” and I hope hebrings the same energy to that franchise that he did here. Lara Croft ain't got nothing on Mother Nature. Advertisement