“Olympus Has Fallen” was a pornographically violent crapfest thattook the standard “Die Hard” template, located it within the confines of aWhite House being attacked by Korean terrorists and tried to use such sights asthe White House in flames, hundreds of corpses on the front lawn and the femaleSecretary of Defense being brutally beaten as the inspiration for the ensuingorgy of shootings, stabbings, neck-breakings and quips delivered by star GerardButler. A truly odious work, it wasn’t even the best White House-set “DieHard” knock-off released in 2013—theChanning Tatum/Jamie Foxxvehicle “WhiteHouse Down” was an infinitely better film that didn't make you feel as if youneeded a shower afterwards—but, presumably because it happened to come outfirst, it was the more successful of the two films. As a result, we now have“London Has Fallen,” a horrible and wildly unnecessary follow-up that mightactually be worse than its predecessor. Advertisement As the film opens, our hero, Mike Banning (Butler), the personalSecret Service agent assigned to guard President Benjamin Asher (Aaron Eckhart),is contemplating resigning his post in order to spend non-lethal quality timewith his wife (Radha Mitchell) and their about-to-be-born child when duty callsonce again—the Prime Minister of London has just died suddenly and he is toaccompany Asher to the funeral, which will be attended by most of the leadersof the free world. As they all begin to congregate for the funeral, however, aseries of coordinated attacks begin involving bombs, rocket launchers andhundreds of fake cops mowing down people in the streets that allow viewers tosee most of London’s landmarks blown to smithereens and presumably thousands ofpeople—including the leaders of France, Canada, Italy and Japan—killed in anynumber of gruesome ways. Happily, thanks to Banning’s decision to movePresident Asher’s arrival ahead of schedule, they manage to escape and evensurvive a crash landing when Marine One is shot down—perhaps the only time inthe film when something crashes and does not instantly go up in a massive ballof flames, other than the film itself. This all turns out to be the doing of Aamir Barkawi (AlonAboutboul), a Middle Eastern terrorist who, according to Vice-PresidentTrumbull (Morgan Freeman), has “killed more people than the plague.” (Oddly,this only earns him a #6 ranking on the Most Wanted list—what does aninternational criminal have to do to crack the top five these days?) Ashercalled in a drone strike on Barkawi a couple of years earlier that wentsideways when the location turned out to be his daughter’s wedding. He is sobound and determined to get revenge that even though he presumably intendedAsher to be killed in the initial strike, he nevertheless has set up a Plan Bthat involves capturing his foe and streaming his execution online for theworld to see. While Trumbull and the cabinet try to figure out a way ofextracting Asher, Banning tries to keep him out of harm’s way with the aid ofJacquelin Marshall (Charlotte Riley), a spunky MI-6 agent who is determined tofigure out who is the agency's mole that helped allow the attacks tohappen—a challenge since virtually every British governmental, police orintelligence worker is portrayed as either a vile traitor or a clueless idiot. Whatever the flaws of “Olympus Has Fallen,” it at least had acertain unity of purpose. It was determined to show the White House under afull-scale assault in the loudest and goriest manner imaginable. By comparison,“London Has Fallen” feels as if it originated as just another tired “Die Hard”knockoff that the producers came across in a pile of unproduced scripts andawkwardly rejiggered into a sequel with minimal effort. (That would at leastexplain why so many cast members from the original—including Freeman, Mitchell,Angela Bassett,Robert ForsterandMelissa Leo—have been shoehorned into theproceedings without being given anything of note to do.) It certainly seemscuriously uninterested in its own equally gauche premise. If you are planningon going to see it primarily to see London’s most famous landmarks in action, you should realize that after the major assault early in theproceedings, the locations shift away from the familiar facades to largelyanonymous streets and building spaces that only barely disguise the fact that mostof the film was actually shot in Bulgaria. Advertisement The elements that do carry over from the original film are, alas, some ofits most loathsome characteristics. Once again, the violence is way, way overthe top. While there is nothing quite as grisly as the aforementionedbeating of the Secretary of Defense, the sheer amount of people getting gunneddown, blown up or stabbed in the head gets a little sickening after a while andthat is even before factoring in the idea of watching a cartoonishentertainment along these lines so soon after the attacks on Paris last fall.The film also tries to punctuate every violent bit with a quip of some sort butfails so badly that it just adds another unpleasant edge to the proceedings.(Example: After the president, who has been stashed in a room for safekeeping,bursts out to shoot a terrorist who has gotten the drop on Banning, Banningresponds by saying, “I was wondering when you were coming out of the closet.”) Other than serving as proof thatGerard Butlercan make moviesthat are even worse than “Gods of Egypt” (not that this should be encouraged),there is absolutely nothing of value to “London Has Fallen” and the fact thatit will no doubt pull in more money at the box office in its opening weekendthan Terrence Malick's “Knight of Cups” will gross in its entire run is too depressing to evencontemplate. Unless you have some insane desire to see what will surely go downas one of the very worst films of 2016, you would be far better served stayingat home and finally giving “White House Down” a look.