There’s a fantastic special feature on the new “InsideLlewyn Davis”CriterionBlu-rayin which filmmaker GuillermoDel Torointerviews Joel and EthanCoen entitled “The First Hundred Feet, The Last Hundred Feet.” In it, Del Torouses “Blood Simple” (the first hundred) and “Inside Llewyn Davis” (the lasthundred) to examine the entire career of the Coen brothers. At Sundance thisyear, one could have had the same conversation withKelly Reichardt, asOscilloscope premiered a restored version of her 1994 debut “River of Grass”alongside the premiere of her star-studded 2016 film “Certain Women.” Thelatter is a film that still haunts me weeks after returning from Park City anda movie I think we’ll be talking about a lot this year, but it’s the formerthat comes out this week, returning to theaters for a limited run. It’sfascinating to watch “River of Grass” in light of what Reichardt would becomein films like “Old Joy,” “Wendy & Lucy,” “Night Moves” and “Meek’s Cutoff.”She is easily one of our most important filmmakers, and it’s interesting to seeher start to play with themes in "River" she would later return to, even if theexecution isn’t quite there yet. Advertisement Reichardt’s films all feature, either blatantly orsubtextually, a natural world that is going on regardless of what humans do ontop of it. She is a master of using natural space, whether it’s the neverendinghorizons constrained by her aspect ratio in “Meek’s” or the darkness of nightin “Night Moves,” and one can see her starting to play with this idea in “Riverof Grass.” The characters in Reichardt’s debut are inconsequential against thebackdrop of a much larger world. They exaggerate their own importance—as we alldo to a certain degree—and Reichardt’s film ends so abruptly, featuring a shotof freeway gridlock heading off into the distance. Almost all of her films seemto suggest that life existed long before you met these people and will go onlong after their drama has unfolded. We are but a speck in a universe that cares little about us. Cozy (Lisa Bowman) is a bored housewife in the FloridaEverglades, where every day looks like the day before and life seems to have nopurpose. She’s looking for anything to spark her dull life when she meets the gregariousLee (Larry Fessenden) in a bar. They flirt and drink. Lee suggests they breakinto a friend’s house so they can swim in his pool. Lee shows Cozy a gun thathe found by the side of the road that is actually related to a crime Cozy’sfather is investigating. The owner of the home comes out to see what’s going onand the gun goes off, convincing Lee & Cozy that they killed a man. Now,they’re on the run, displaced from their already-barely-placed life like CarlHiassen’s version of Bonnie & Clyde. They hang out in motels, seeminglyunable to really be on the run, stuck in the Everglades like so many people whotalk about leaving but never do. The kind of meandering apathy that Reichardt is going for in“River of Grass” can be tough to connect to as a viewer, and it’s interestingthat her films became more resonant when they switched from what is kind of acomedy to drama. How do we deal with our insignificance? Cozy and Lee don't really deal with anything. We barely care about Cozy and Lee because it feels likeReichardt barely cares about Cozy and Lee. There are enough times whenReichardt’s wit and skill comes through to make it worth a look in its restoredversion, especially if you’re a fan of her later work, but it’s almost tooethereal, it slips through your fingers when you try to grab it. Although thatcould be the point. Advertisement