This sometimes rewarding but also bothersomely uneven comedyisJulie Delpy’s sixth feature film as a director; she also co-wrote. Thedirectorial efforts that have gotten the most exposure here in the U.S. weretwo that went for a certain crossover appeal: 2007's “2 Days In Paris,” inwhich a French woman played by Delpy visited the City of Lights accompanied byher American boyfriend, played byAdam Goldberg, and 2012's “2 Days In New York,”which saw her playing the same character in a different city, this time withChris Rockin the boyfriend role. This film, by way of contrast, is 100-percentFrench, or at least European. It features cameos byKarl Lagerfeldand Frenchchef Frédéric Beigbeder and musician Bertrand Burgalat. Its verbal humor leansheavily on allusions that you have to be at least a Francophile to get. And yetthe comedy remains, as it was in the other two films mentioned, rather WoodyAllen-inflected (at least as root causes go); one may also detect hints of “Sexand the City” and “Girls,” although there’s also a hint of the 2013 Frenchgirl-talk comedy “Les coquillettes.” Advertisement Delpy plays Violette, a fashion-industry workaholic who’ssmart and attractive but getting a little neurotic about being nearly 45 andboyfriend-less. On a spa trip to Biarritz she and girlfriend Ariane (KarinViard) kvell about their hot-tub treatments (their comparison of how the waterjetting on to certain of their body parts immediately sets the tone for theircasually frank sex talk) and Violette is encouraged to hook up with the genialJean-René, played by French comic superstarDany Boon. Jean-René is a softwareengineer from a provincial background who looks like, well, Dany Boon, sothere’s your fish out of water romance there. But he’s really nice instead offake nice, generous with oral sex, etc., so when he comes up to Paris for work, Violette is ready for romance. But is Lolo? Lolo is the nickname of Eloi, Valerie’s sonfrom an old and bad marriage. He’s played by angel-faced, silm-hipped VincentLacoste, most recently seen on U.S. screens as a Daft Punk cofounder in MiaHansen-Love’s “Eden” and inBenoît Jacquot’s “Diary of a Chambermaid.” Lolo isimmediately suspicious of Jean-René, or “J.R.” as he calls him, and initiallybaits the new boyfriend in droll passive-aggressive ways. At their firstdinner, for instance, he gets J.R. to talk at length about the nuts and boltsof software engineering, which has the desired effect of nearly boring poorViolette to death. Lolo brags to his chunky pal Lulu (Antoine Lounguine) that J.R. will be historyin a week, but the fellow proves hard to take. There’s a lot in this picture that’s kind of interesting ifnot entirely effective. Delpy is pretty nervy in her depiction of Violette;she’s a relatively unsympathetic heroine, the type of person who uses her cellphone in places where you’re not supposed to and gives a “don’t you understand,rules don’t apply to ME” eyeroll when her rudeness is pointed out. Herrelationship with her son is kind of a Hipster Parent day-mare, with theirsharing dope and oh-so-permissive “no secrets” conversational volleys. But LoloDOES have a secret, one that he’s successfully kept from his mother for anunusually long time. UnlikeJonah Hill’s Cyrus, the title character in anot-dissimilar “don’t f—k my mom” U.S. comedy from 2010, Lolo’s not just alonely misunderstood manchild in need of some useful non-mom empathy. He’s kindof a full-on sociopath, and once he ramps things up from childish pranks (likeputting itching powder in Jean-René’s clothes) to full-on existential sabotage,the movie seems to take a turn in to full dark comedy. But it doesn’t, really, and that’s partially to its credit.Delpy withholds any kind of definitive payback scene after Jean-René’s life isvery nearly ruined by Lolo—instead she stages an aren’t-boys-silly scene offailed slapstick recrimination. Refreshing—but not very satisfying. For all ofits non-commonplace perspectives, the movie finally feels a bit thin. It is,though, beautifully cast and moves at an alert if not spanking pace. Advertisement