Warning: As you may have guessed by its stealth production(no one really knew it existed before a trailer dropped), the less you knowaboutDan Trachtenberg’s “10 Cloverfield Lane,” the better. It is a film thatplays on forced perspective, keeping you in the dark about what exactly isgoing on. I will tread very lightly in the review to follow, but I won’t behurt if you want to click away right about now. Come back after you've seen it. “10 Cloverfield Lane” is a tight, tense thriller carried byexcellent performances fromJohn GoodmanandMary Elizabeth Winstead. It hasechoes ofAlfred Hitchcockand H.G. Wells embedded in a cat-and-mouse gameafter the end of the world. Without directly acknowledging it in traditionalblockbuster ways, it’s a sequel to 2008’s “Cloverfield,” a found footage filmabout an alien invasion. It’s almost like a spin-off from that film, imagininga different story taking place in a different part of the world but in the sameuniverse. Whereas that movie jumped on a current trend in its approach (foundfootage), Dan Trachtenberg’s film feels much more old-fashioned in its style,recalling genre pictures of the ‘50s and ‘60s. Trachtenberg and his team don’texplore some of the film’s potential themes as deeply as I hoped they would andit’s less visually engaging than it could have been. But this is rock-solidentertainment, a film meant to keep you guessing and jumping for 100 minutesbefore it throws you back into the world to argue about its ending. Advertisement Once in development under the name “The Cellar,” the scriptbyJosh CampbellandMatthew Stuecken(with a co-story credit by “Whiplash”writerDamien Chazelle) was retrofitted to place it in the world of “Cloverfield.”So, as Michelle (Winstead) drives away from her life and partner, leaving herhouse keys and ring on the table, we hear ominous reports of power outages onthe coast over the radio. These opening scenes are clearly designed to bereminiscent of another story of a woman who left the city for a dangerouscountryside, as Michelle packing her bags andBear McCreary’s overheated,Hermann-esque score will make anyone who’s seen "Psycho" think of Marion Crane in theopening act of Hitchcock's classic. It’s not long before Michelle finds her Norman Bates. After a terrifying car accident, Michelle wakes up in abarren room, chained to the wall. She soon meets her captor, an imposing figurenamed Howard (John Goodman), although he claims to be more of a savior than akidnapper. He saw Michelle’s accident just as the sky exploded. There’s been an“event” outside, and he grabbed Michelle just in time to get her into thebunker he built for just such an occasion. It could be the Russians, the NorthKoreans or the Martians—but, whatever it is, the air probably won’t bebreathable for one or two years. And isn’t Michelle lucky that they have enoughfood, filtered air, and other supplies in this doomsday prepper’s bunker towait it out? They’re not alone. Just before Howard closed the door, aneighbor named Emmett (John Gallagher Jr.) barged his way in as well. Emmett,who has seen Howard building this bunker for just such an occasion, confirmsenough of what Howard says that Michelle starts to believe. Well-played by the "Short Term 12" star, Emmett becomes a pivot point for the film, alternating between encouraging Michelle's fears and affirming that Howard is, at least in part, who he says he is. And when she seessomething horrible after an aborted escape attempt, she resigns herself to theidea that these two men will be the last human beings she ever sees. Butsomething’s not right with Howard. He’s controlling to an uncomfortable level,especially when it comes to the dynamic between Michelle and Emmett. There’s afantastic scene of game-playing in which Howard’s misogyny is laid on thetable, and the film keeps us guessing as to just what his intentions or endgame will be. Advertisement That sense of unease is certainly there in the script andTrachtenberg deserves credit as well, but it’s John Goodman’s performance that makesyour skin crawl. He captures a man on the edge of sanity for whom control iskey. He’s not an obvious maniac, as some other actors would have played therole, but someone who honestly thinks he’s a savior, and thinking that playsinto his control-freak God complex. Goodman keeps us guessing, allowingglimpses of the possibly kind man that Howard used to be before all of thishappened but even shading those in a sense of conditionality. Howard remindsMichelle and Emmett that he saved them so much that we start to wonder what he’sgoing to expect in return. In terms of performance, the underrated Winstead matchesGoodman in every way. So fantastic in “Smashed” and “Faults,” this is anactress who only gets a small portion of the attention she deserves. Shecarries “10 Cloverfield Lane,” conveying Michelle’s conflicted feelings abouther predicament and staying so completely in the moment that the tensionremains. We only know what she knows, so she has to be our conduit to the film,responding to each new hurdle and conflict as we would. The final half-hour of “10 Cloverfield Lane” is pretty muchgoing to dominate the conversation around the film. Without spoiling anything,it’s a series of events in which Michelle finds new challenges around everycorner (that would only be a spoiler if you’ve never seen a thriller). While I’mnot sure it’s as narratively sound as it could have been—and one can see theretrofitting of the traditional thriller into the sci-fi universe—Winstead andthe filmmakers keep it working through sheer confidence. Like the openingscenes of the film, the final act is largely dialogue-free. There’s none ofthat character-talking-to-herself nonsense you see in lesser films that aren’tas sure of themselves when it comes to visual storytelling. So many movies holdyour hand as you go over every hill on the rollercoaster. When it gets to its finale “10 Cloverfield Lane”wants you to throw both hands in the air and scream.