DirectorNaomi Kawaseis a Cannes Film Festival favorite whose work rarely reachesAmerican shores. Since 1997, four of her films have competed for the Palme d’Or, and she has won the Golden Camera and the Jury Prize. Her latest film, “SweetBean," which competed in last year’s Un Certain Regard section at Cannes, isgetting a bigger U.S. release than any of her prior work, and it’s easy to seewhy. This is the kind of film that wins festival audience awards—a gentle,unassuming work that's simple, emotional story has the potential for arthousesleeper status. Advertisement “Sweet Bean”doesn’t go anywhere the viewer isn’t expecting, but I did not mind taking thetrip. It’s a movie about food and the joys of a good day’s work, two of mycinematic sweet spots. I love watching people do their jobs onscreen, and I’m alwayshungry. There’s a special cinema subgenre that caters to moviegoers like me,the foodie movie. Films like “Babette’s Feast” and “Big Night” represent thehigh-water mark, while the recentBradley Coopervehicle “Burnt”languished near the bottom. “Sweet Bean” falls somewhere in the middle, thoughit gets extra points for evoking memories of “Big Night's" classicomelette-making final scene. Sentaro (MasatoshiNagase) runs a small dorayaki shop, where he cooks the pancake-based snack fora small group of schoolgirls who frequent the establishment. Dorayaki are asandwich-like treat made of two pancakes held together by a large dollop ofan, the sweet bean paste of the title. Sentarorises early to create the perfectly shaped tiny pancakes he uses for his dorayaki.Any rejects that do not meet his criteria become “discards” that he hands outfor free. The camera treats Sentaro’s griddle work like a sacred ritual; itlovingly ogles each measured spoonful of batter hitting the grill. We drool. One of the schoolgirls,Wakana (Kyara Uchida), inquires about the Help Wanted sign in the shop’swindow, a sign that doesn’t seem necessary given the small customer base. Hercompetition for the job is Tokue (Kirin Kiki), a senior citizen who stops bythe shop to sample Sentaro’s wares. A 50-year veteran of making dorayaki, Tokueoffers up a valid criticism: the pancakes are good, but the an is sub-par. Her expert palette isinsulted further when she discovers Sentaro’s an comes from the supermarket. She demands that Sentaro either makethe an from scratch, or hire her todo it for him. When he declines her help, Tokue drops off some of her homemadefilling. Sentaro tries it, and is so stunned by its flavor that he hires her. Advertisement As if thefilm’s pancake porn weren’t enough, we are soon presented with the film’s an making sequence. It’s a long processthat, like "Sweet Bean," requires more patience than most would be willing togive. Kawase takes her time crafting this scene, which she sets in the darknessjust before dawn. By itself, it would make an excellent stand-alone short film.The arduous process of cooking anpays off when Sentaro’s new, improved dorayaki quickly become alines-around-the-block success due to word of mouth. Word ofmouth is also the catalyst for the film’s dramatic conflict, which I’vepurposely avoided discussing until now. This plot development is not reallynecessary, as "Sweet Bean" could have framed its message of tolerance withinthe confines of the store and the personal dynamics of the three generationsrepresented by Wakana, Tokue and Sentaro. By adding a secret life for Tokue(which the film reveals early on, but I’ll not spoil) and a tragic finalsection, “Sweet Bean” makes a blatant leap for the heartstrings that feels too heavy-footedfor its delicate construction. Admittedly, some of these scenes are moving, butoften the sentiment feels laid on as thick and chunky as Tokue’s bean paste. Kawasefavors close-ups and medium shots of her actors and the action, creating anintimacy upon which her lead actors thrive. Kiki, Uchida and Nagase bring awealth of subtle emotion to their thinly drawn characters, and it registers ontheir faces and in their body language. One scene in particular stands out, and if you blink you might miss it. When Tokue is offered the job, Kikisilently plays this beautiful moment of fulfillment. She lights up with anewfound sense of purpose, and in that brief instance, you know all you need toknow about her character’s soul. Advertisement Kawasedepicts the passage of time with beautifully shot changes of season, bookendingthe film with the vivid cherry blossoms of Spring. When “Sweet Bean” isleisurely coasting along like this, one can easily get lost in its meditativepull. I found enough of that to forgive the film its trespasses. “Sweet Bean” maybe as overly sweet as dorayaki, but like that treat, it hits the spot if thatis what you crave. If you go to see it, take your Nana, because this film will makeyou think of her.