How far would you go to protect your child? What if savinghim meant letting him go?Jeff Nichols’ brilliant “Midnight Special” weavesrelatable themes of parental responsibility and faith in that which is traditionally unexplainable into a sci-fi road movie, with echoes ofJohn Carpenter,Steven Spielberg, andStephen Kingbouncing throughout. So many modern blockbusters err on the side of hand-holding,underlining their plots and character motivations with consistent expositorydialogue or overly defined narration. There’s this bizarre concern by Hollywoodthat audiences will rebel if they don’t fully understand what’s going on at everygiven moment, and so characters talk to themselves, motivations are spelled outin voiceover, and everyone, especially in action movies, speaks of what theyhave to do and why they have to do it. “Midnight Special” respects your intelligence, letting you come to its themes emotionally instead of narratively. It is a breathtakingdisplay of visual storytelling, confidently rendered by someone who understandsthe power of cinema. Advertisement Nichols, who also wrote the film, plunges us into the actionof the piece immediately. Two men—Roy (Michael Shannon, who has appeared inevery Nichols film) and Lucas (Joel Edgerton)—are in a motel room, watching anews story about a manhunt involving a kidnapped boy. The boy is in between thetwo beds in the room, reading comic books with a flashlight. His name is Alton(Jaeden Lieberher), and he’s special. He’s so special that an entire religioussect has sprouted up around him, led by Calvin Meyer (Sam Shepard). As Roy andLucas flee into the night with Alton in the backseat and wearing night vision gogglesso they can turn off their headlights to make themselves harder to spot, Calvin’scompound is raided. It turns out everyone is looking for Alton. The FBI brings in a specialist to meet with Calvin’s flocknamed Paul Sevier (Adam Driver), trying to figure what they know about the boyand exactly what this golden child means to them. It turns out that the cult of Altonworships numeric sequences that the potential prophet has been revealing to them. It alsoturns out that these numeric sequences mean something to the government, andthey want to know how a child knew them. Finally, the numbers seem to be pointingAlton, Roy and Lucas to a specific location. Lucas is one of the recently converted—through a special power that Alton has to convey something transcendent through beams that shoot from his eye—but Roy's devotion is purely parental. Both menneedto get Altonthere intime; nothing will stop them.The drive of Roy, Alton’s father, is made clear in an earlyscene in which the trio encounters a state trooper. He sees their license plateand looks like he’s about to call it in when Roy and Lucas draw on him. Istheir mission important enough to kill a cop? Roy’s drive to do what hethinks he needs to be done for his son is motivated by the passion of fatherhood,but is Lucas’ purpose as committed? And how will Alton’s mother, played by KirstenDunst, respond? “Midnight Special” is masterful in the way it keeps answeringquestions and then asking new ones, always staying one step ahead of theviewer. It’s a testament to Nichols’ direction that we trust that we are in thehands of a master, willing to take the journey wherever it may lead us. Advertisement And the final destination for that journey, while I wouldnever spoil it, is surprisingly emotionally resonant. Alton being “special” could easily be read as an allegory for a sick child, one who is not likethe others and needs a different kind of care and attention; one who is specialin a way that only parents who have dealt with that kind of pain and loss couldunderstand. There is also an undeniable story of faith buried in “MidnightSpecial”—about believing in something unseen, something greater than ourselves.Much of this emotional undercurrent falls on the shoulders of Nichols’ cast,especially the driven, subtle performance from Michael Shannon, although he’smatched by great work from Dunst, Edgerton, Driver, and the rest of the cast.“Midnight Special” also relies on essential contributions from cinematographerAdam Stone(who has worked with Nichols on all of his films) and composerDavid Wingo. Stone captures the natural world almost as another character (as he did in “Take Shelter” and “Mud”) and makes a work of art out of a sequence that hinges on a sunrise. Nichols and Stone's compositions are completed by Wingo’s score, which often drives us to the film’s emotions as it goes daringly dialogue-free for large chunks of the action. In the end, that’s what I take away from “Midnight Special”—thepower of visual storytelling. It is images from the film that pass through mymind most—flames falling from the sky, a father carrying his child, the shaking ofgrass as something is about to happen, and the jaw-dropping finale. Nichols isthe rare filmmaker who understands that this is what we take away from the bestfilms, and the powerful way that art reflects that which transcends words: a father's dedication, the pain of a sick child, belief in something greater than ourselves. Sure, we quote our favorite lines and do impressions of characters, butit is the pictures that haunt us, that linger in our mind, and that stay withus. Sometimes forever. Advertisement