I kind of knew this movie was trouble from the opening twominutes. First of all, it opensin mediasres, sort of: a young woman screaming and running about at the edge of aforest at night, and then, boom, she gets an axe right in the forehead, and—ofcourse—the axe stays there, and she runs toward the camera. And then there’sthe opening title, which is in pretty much the exact same typeface as the logofor theJohn Carpenterclassic “They Live.” I know winking homages tend to bethe glue that holds contemporary genre films together, but that doesn’t mean Ihave to like it. And yes, I know thatJoe Dante, a director I admire and youought to as well, packs his movies with clever in-joke references, but he doesit with panache and wit and doesn’t nudge you in the ribs about the wholething. Advertisement “They’re Watching” then gets worse, with a pastiche of a“House Hunters”-style cable TV program, this one chronicling the search of adippy Californian of a certain age (Brigid Brannagh) looking for a domicile inMoldava, an Eastern European country of spooky antiquity. The local color isprovided via a native real estate agent named Vladimir; actor DimitriDiatchenko applies all the subtlety of an average “Yacht Rock” sketch performerto his role here. Once the episode concludes with Brannagh’s Becky settling ona decrepit house that gives new meaning to the term “fixer-upper,” we goforward a few months. And, if you’re me, you are dismayed to learn that thiswhole movie is going to be another found-footage deal, because now we’re in avan with three crew members of the househunting show, back in Moldava for thefollowup. There’s Alex (Kris Lemche) the obnoxious nerdy sexist motormouth;Greg (David Alpay), the quieter studly guy; and Sarah (Mia Faith), a producer’sniece who went to film school and is attractive. You see the dynamic that’sgoing to develop here, which gains more “intrigue” when Alex reveals thatGreg has been to Afghanistan. Adding to the volatility of the mix is the show’sostensible bitch-on-wheels host Kate (Carrie Genzel) who likes nothing more toshriek invective at her subordinates. And there’s a lot of invective to be shrieked. Co-writersand co-directorsJay LenderandMicah Wrighttake a full half hour to evenbegin introducing the plot points that are going to result in folks gettingtheir heads split open with axes. Greg and Sarah excite some hostility from thelocals by crashing a funeral with their cameras on, but the real eye-opener isthe miracle of Becky’s house, which is now a beautifully decorated andappointed cottage. Something odd, and involving frogs, is afoot. Will we everfind out? Will Greg ever reveal his Afghanistan story? We all know the answersto these questions. The movie’s incredibly irritating characters made meremember why I only ever needed to watch “The Blair Witch Project” once, andits hobbling, dopey, drawn-out plotlines and xenophobic thematic threads mademe think very, very kind thoughts aboutEli Roth’s “Hostel” movies, which atleast have ruthless efficiency going for them. Once the movie’s horrorpyrotechnics are set off, the special effects sometimes have the feel of aCharles Band production for the 1980s, that is, for those not familiar withthat output, kind of pleasantly cheesy and … well, pleasantly cheesy, that’s all.An hour and fifteen minutes of tedium is too long to wait for two or threeminutes of pleasantly cheesy. Advertisement