Gérard DepardieuandIsabelle Huppertfirst appearedonscreen together in 1974’s “Going Places,” a still-coruscating, anti-buddy sexcomedy directed by the currently out-of-favor-in-cinephile-land directorBertrand Blier.Huppert played Jacqueline, a rebellious teen who loses her virginity underproblematic circumstances to the two louts played by Depardieu and PatrickDewaere. Isabelle and Gerard were then the romantic leads inMaurice Pialat’s 1980 “Loulou,” in which Huppert played a young woman who flipsoff her nasty abusive husband and her bourgeois social set to pursue eroticrapture with Depardieu’s titular hunk (who exudes a Joe-Dallesandro-gone-Gallicallure). That movie was a kind of erotic landmark of ostensibly mainstreammoviemaking, in part because of Huppert and Depardieu’s candor and lack ofinhibition. The performers continue to exhibit those qualities forty yearsafter the fact, reuniting in the evocative, sometimes puzzling, and sometimesmoving “Valley of Love.” Advertisement This is the latest film fromGuillaume Nicloux, who recentlymade “The Kidnapping of Michel Houellebecq,” in which the French literary formerenfant terrible played himself in a fictional scenario. Initially, “Valley ofLove” also seems occupied with meta activities; the lead actors play charactersnamed “Gérard” and “Isabelle.” But—and it’s a substantial "but"—their charactersare a former married couple, one with an adult son that committed suicide.That’s not true of Huppert and Depardieu, despite the fact that theircharacters, meeting in the USA's own Death Valley after years ofestrangement, are also film performers. Depardieu’s jape of honoring a peskyAmerican’s autograph request by signing “Bob De Niro” leads to some interestingdiscomfort for him. Obviously, Nicloux got these performers back together toextrapolate on, or perhaps exploit, their iconography, but he’s up to quite abit more than that. The dead son has, in separate but very nearly verbatimletters, asked Gérard and Isabelle to meet for seven days at Death Valley’spark; at the end of their stay, he promises, he will appear to them. Gérard hasacquiesced reluctantly; he’s got health issues weighing on his mind. (WhileHuppert, now over 60, still looks sensational, the sight of the gargantuanDepardieu with his shirt off, suntan or not, somehow brings to mind FredricForrest’s “Apocalypse Now” monologue about the boiled sides of beef.) Isabellebelieves that the manifestation will occur, and implores Gerard to stay andhave faith. And that’s the film’s operating mechanism; the rest of “Valley ofLove” consists of the performers/characters’ sometimes pained, sometimes wrylyfunny interactions. Both Gérard and Isabelle deal with forms of individualanxiety (this being a European art film, the scene in which one of them vomitsfeels a little pro forma), and Nicloux throws in more intimations of thesupernatural as the promised day draws closer. The Death Valley vistas areoften spectacular, the melancholic, dissonant music of Charles Ives is aptlyused, and Depardieu and Huppert resonate mightily even when they’re not up tomuch. It’s a little jarring to see these two one-time emblems of rebellion inthe roles of aged parents who just didn’t understand, but of course that’s partof the film’s point. Youthful impudence is a great and sometimes useful thing,but it is, alas, practically unsustainable, which is something we never quiteget while we’re exercising it. These characters, and the actors playing them,get it very, very well. It’s in the way that Depardieu and Huppert can conveyan aspect of phenomenological rue that gives this sometimes muddled movie itsultimate value.