It feels somewhat clichéd to call an animated adventure film a “delight,” but it’s the best word for the latest from GKids, “April and the Extraordinary World,” a joyful,accomplished movie that echoes “The City of Lost Children,” “TheAdventures of Tintin,” “Metropolis,” “Howl’s Moving Castle” and somethingunique into a, well, delightful piece of work. More directly (and accurately) translated fromFrench as “April and the Twisted World,” this Paris-set, alternative-universeadventure from co-directorsChristian DesmaresandFranck Ekinciis soremarkably fluid that it almost feels effortless. It’s a film that values intelligence in an increasingly scary world, and that’s a theme that works for any generation and in any language. (The film is being released subtitled anddubbed in several markets—for the record, I viewed the subtitled version withgreat voice work byMarion CotillardandJean Rochefort). Advertisement “April” opens over a century ago, imagining an alternatetimeline that branches off when Napoleon III dies as a result of a scienceexperiment gone awry. It turns out that Napoleon and his team were trying todevelop a serum that would make their soldiers invincible. Playing God resultedin talking animals, but no immortality. When the mad scientist’s laboratorygoes boom, it looks like his experiments have gone with it, but a couple oftalking lizards escape, setting in motion only one element that will foreveralter history. The story flashes forward decades to a cold, steampunk 1931Paris. A young girl named April (voice of Marion Cotillard) watches as her parents try to finish theinvincibility serum started so many years ago. Of course, the government wantsto get their hands on this God-like tool, leading to a chase scene that resultsin April being orphaned, her only companion her talking cat Darwin. Flashforward another decade (and it’s no coincidence that the bulk of this storylands in Europe in the era of World War II in “our” timeline) and April is tryingto finish the experiment herself from a secret lair in the head of a statue.The police inspector who tracked her parents wants to find her—he never gotApril’s grandfather and is convinced that April’s parents are still alive—and,well, there are further surprises in store for April and her talking feline. "April and the Extraordinary World" is a visually fascinating, even captivating film,alternating between incredible, painter-like detail and refreshingly simplehand-drawn lines (like a scribble for an eyebrow or an ear). The blending of shotsthat look like they could be framed art with lines that look almost unfinishedcalls to mind the work ofSylvain Chomet, the director of one of my favorite animated films this decade, "The Illusionist," and Hergé, who created “Tintin.” Basedon the graphic novel byJacques Tardi, “April and the Extraordinary World” feelsboth retro and new. It thematically and visually calls to mind serialadventures of generations ago, but it does so with its own modern voice,playing with timeless themes like the hope that the future will be better thanthe present and that our parents (and our pets) will live forever. Advertisement Filmmakers and artists have been imaginingworlds in which industry and development are choking us for over a century, but“April and the Extraordinary World” carves its own path within this crowdedsubgenre of imaginative fiction. It’s got so many subtle themes and hidden joysthat will connect with the parents of children who are just falling in lovewith the action of a well-told story. There was a time when the concept of the “inventor,” someone whoused their brain power to make the world a better place, was as captivating tochildren as giant killer robots. “April and the Extraordinary World” weavesthis idea—that it is our intelligence that will save us—into anaction-adventure with more twists and turns than most Hollywood blockbusters. And a scene-stealing talking cat. Forthe right audience, it plasters a smile on your face, constantly offering newsurprises to entrance and, sorry, there’s that word again, delight.