Hank Williams was arguably the first modern superstar ofcountry music. There’s also a sense in which you could call him a rock star,and the sense is a tragic one: he died on the way to a gig, of heart failure,after a short lifetime of not taking terribly good care of himself—age 29. Hissongs remain country standards and rightly so, but there’s not much room for hishaunted persona in contemporary country. Williams’ son, whose name you might beable to guess, projects a much hairier and more rambunctious model and is, assuch, more of an influence. (“You Sure Hank Done It This Way?” is the name of arueful State-Of-Country song cut by Waylon Jennings. Back in 1975, for heaven’ssake.) Advertisement “I Saw The Light,” written and directed byMarc Abraham, isa never-less-than-handsomely-mounted film biography of Williams; theparticularly outstanding cinematography is byDante Spinotti, the craftsman whoalso shot the likes of “Heat” and “L.A. Confidential.” Williams is played bythe lanky, high-cheekboned British actorTom Hiddleston, and he’s a terrificphysical match for the man himself, who had a perpetual lean-and-hungry look.Hiddleston’s performance is a masterful one: understated, superbly modulated,empathetic. Hiddleston can also mimic Williams’ yodel-inflected singing style,which brought the innovation of classic country warbler Jimmie Rodgers into amore pop-friendly realm, with impressive accuracy. While Hiddleston’s is thestandout performance, and why not, the rest of the cast is formidable:Elizabeth Olsen,Cherry Jones,Bradley Whitford,David Krumholtzand a host ofothers do superb work in roles of spouse, mother, business associate, and soon. And yet the movie flounders. Williams was a seriousalcoholic and eventually a pain pill addict; his relationships with women werehectic, to say the least; his massive talent was complemented in the negativeby a substantial and ever-increasing lack of ability to show any kind ofresponsibility. The messy specifics of Williams’ adult life prove toointransigent for Abraham’s abilities; the writer-director can’t make coherentart out of them. The key conflict—at least initially—in Williams’ firstmarriage, to Olsen’s Audrey Mae, has to do with her own singing ambitions.They’re strong, but her talent is not, and this makes for a series ofdiscomfiting scenes. Abraham’s everyone-has-their-reasons sense of balance maybe commendable on humanist grounds, and there’s no compelling reason thatAudrey Mae has to be the villain in the scenario, but there’s no effectivetension here; the drama is flat. Later in the film, when Williams’ romanticimbroglios take on a nearly farcical pitch, he behaves with staggeringcallousness to one of his girlfriends (Wrenn Schmidt's Bobbie Jett) and the movie can barelyshrug its shoulders. Many opportunities for character illumination are fluffed.In a meeting with Hollywood movie mogul Dore Schary, Williams arrogantlyrefuses to take off his hat for the executive. The implication is thatTinseltown’s too phony for Williams. Mere minutes later, Hank is doing somevery cornball schtick with an overweight comic emcee on the Grand Ole Opryradio show. This suggests a dichotomy that might have been fruitfully explored.But it is not. There are moments. Williams’ tetchiness with a New Yorkjournalist (Krumholtz) sticks to the ribs, as does a drunken freestyle courtesyof Williams’ darkling alter ego Luke the Drifter. But in the end, “I Saw TheLight” doesn’t illuminate enough to show us an entirely compellingWilliams.