Jean-PaulSartre's play “No Exit” premiered in May 1944, while his beloved Paris wasunder Nazi occupation. To skirt the occupiers’ curfews, the play is just oneact, in which three characters find themselves in a very different version of hellthan they expected. Each character watches the events following their death inthe world they left behind, observing his or her memory blink outon earth, as those who knew them gradually forget. They’d died once,deceased and mourned, but now they’re truly dead—as if they'd never existed. Advertisement WhileSartre wrote plays and books and argued with his circle of buddies at Le Dôme Café in occupied Paris, a great deal of human culture was in danger of both kinds ofdeath. After all, if London can be bombed, so can Paris—home of the Louvre, themassive treasure trove of culture from Europe, Greece, Rome, and the ancientNear East. That weight of history and the danger we all narrowly escaped whenParis was occupied isAlexander Sokurov’s main interestin “Francofonia”—even more than the beauty contained in the Louvre, uponwhich any filmmaker would be excused for fixating. Sokurov’s2002 film “Russian Ark,” shot in one 96-minute Steadicam sequence, wassimilarly interested in the history of the Winter Palace (now part of St.Petersburg’s Hermitage Museum) and so it collapsed its long-past events andcharacters into one continuous take of the building. For “Francofonia,” Sokurovreturns to the art museum, but perhaps taking a cue from its Parisian setting,this film wanders like aflâneurbetween past and present, traversing space and history, crossing from fictionto nonfiction and back. The Louvre is both a warehouse for culture—includingthe spoils of war—and an artifact of its own long history, and that’s the subjectof reverence: a record of humankind’s efforts to imprint itself upon time. SoSokurov takes a similar approach. He treats the screen like a canvas, splittingit in half, playing with shadows and colors on old photographs, gliding alongthe long Louvre hallways, changing film stock and color gradations, droppingrepresentation out altogether to let colors fade into one another. As WorldWar II loomed, many of the paintings were removed from the Louvre andsquirreled away in variouschâteaux,far from likely sites of destruction and out of the reach of roving bandsof Nazi soldiers. The empty frames and sculptures were all that remained. Sokurovshows photos to us of that strange empty Louvre—or perhaps depicts what itwould have looked like; it’s hard to tell when the image on screen is anoriginal and when it’s a recreation, created since (as he points out) archivalfootage and photographs “can conceal the improper behavior of power andpeople.” In footage from that time, everyone looks happy. The real story is inwhat we can't see. Advertisement If youjust watch the masses of tourists wandering beneath the giant glassy pyramidthat sits above the Louvre’s central, most of whom are headed for the MonaLisa, you forget that the Louvre was once a palace, built to be a fortress inthe late 12th century. In a signature bit of camera trickery, at one pointSokurov puts us on a tower high above the museum and makes a full rotation,erasing the present and giving us the long-distant past: forests, trees, a fewrudimentary buildings. Eventually, we see the palace spring up and change shapein its frequent alterations, eventually giving way to the more familiarcourtyard and palace. Sokurov is the film’s narrator (mostly in Russian), butto accompany us down the corridors of the empty museum, he conjures two ghosts: Vincent Nemeth's comical Napoléon Bonaparte (under whose rule the Louvre’s collection dramaticallyincreased), who declares “c’est moi!” to us no matter what painting he’spointing at; and Joanna Korthals Altes' Marianne, symbol of the French Republic, clad in a Greekchiton and a red Phrygian cap, who whispers “Liberte! Fraternite! Equalite!”as she glides down hallways. Sokoruvbends the film around the Louvre's most recent period of peril, the Nazioccupation of 1940-1944. But nothing went quite as expected. Paris was notbombed. The Louvre was, in fact, preserved. It seems at least part of thereason is the unlikely partnership that sprung up between Jacques Jaujard(played in the film byLouis-Do de Lencquesaing), director of the Louvre andall national museums, and the German officer Count Franziskus Wolff-Metternich(Benjamin Utzerath). Both men were nearly the same age, and as dramatizedin “Francofonia,” they worked together to ensure that the treasures weretreated with respect—and so we encounter the unlikely sight of Nazi soldierslooking at sculptures in the museum’s grand hallways, and even a bomber plane,in what must be an imagined moment, flying through the Cour Marly. True, thepreservation of art was partly a play for power, a gratuitous display ofbenevolence by an occupying force, even if it was spearheaded by a man whoseems to have been uncommonly sensitive to aesthetics and history. But evenwith Jaujard and Wolff-Metternich’s efforts, some art was lost. Bearing preciousart as cargo, some ships sank to the bottom of their trade routes. Sokurov usesthis fact to bookend the film, because his central interest is not the grandevents of history, but the humans fixed in it, given some measure ofimmortality in the faces of paintings, sculptures, and photographs—the “humanstock of Europe,” as he puts it. “What would have happened to the history ofEurope if portraiture had not appeared?” he asks. At the Louvre and in “Francofonia,”we are always looking into the faces and eyes of the long-dead, not just ofEurope but of other civilizations, too (the recently restored 2nd-centuryGreek “Winged Victory of Samothrace,” which lacks a head but projects enormouspresence nonetheless, makes an appearance). Advertisement Lastsummer, during a six-week stay in Paris, I went frequently to the Louvre, mylengthy sojourn providing the unusual luxury of sitting in one gallery for along time and watching the visitors without worrying about missing anything.When you’re not moving with the crowd, you can watch them, and I watched faces:small children looking up at the giant paintings in wonder, bored couplesgrimly stalking through the halls because a guidebook told them to go, artstudents and elderly novices sketching sculptures. The largest group ofvisitors was comprised of enthusiastic tourists on a headlong rush through thecorridors, holding up iPhones and not bothering to look at individual works foreven a second before snapping pictures of everything. I confessthat I felt annoyed and smug about their Philistinism, but watching “Francofonia”it occurred to me that their masses of digital photographs are a way ofpreserving faces and history, and whether or not they ever look at them again(the likelihood is very low), they’ve preserved the faces. History has beenreplicated. As long as those photos remain, the old history never blinks out ofmemory entirely, as if it never existed, with no one to remember it. Near thefilm’s end, Sokurov-as-narrator breaks the fourth wall and tellsWolff-Metternich and Jaujard what the events of their futures will be—both ofthem fated to eventual obscurity and basically forgotten, at least untilSokurov revived them here. “Time is a tight knot,” he says. It is at least oneduty of art to make sure it doesn’t unravel.