A good psychoanalyst doesn’t do a lot of talking. They lettheir patient talk, and talk, and talk. After a while, a person who’s beengiven such reign to express themselves becomes unwittingly naked and vulnerableto the discerning listener. What rises to the surface from all the chatter andnoise, pauses and other verbal punctuations, is a clear picture of thepatient’s preoccupations. Do they keep circling back to the same problem orsubject? Are they worried about their work or love-life? How do they form theirsentences? Where do they falter, when do they digress? What verbal inflections,and when? Do words repeat themselves? The patient frames their issues simplythrough the use of language.Advertisement While a therapist is silent for a very professional purpose,Taiwanese actorLee Kang-Shengappears to be just a naturally quiet kind offellow, as seen in “Afternoon,” a film that consists of a two-hour-plus, middayconversation between Malaysian-born, Taiwan-raised filmmakerTsai Ming-liangand his long-time collaborator Lee. Especially in the first hour, the filmfeels a bit like watching a one-sided conversation. Lee is the solid andlevel-headed anchor of the two, a sounding board for Tsai. The filmmaker, onthe other hand, speaks freely, openly, and verbosely, as if he were a tapsomeone forgot to turn off. Because the film is set up as four very long takes,there is nothing else that can transpire in this interrupted conversation, sowe have to get used to the silences and the organic flow that pepper the free-flowingconversation. That’s not to suggest, however, that “Afternoon” elides itsstaginess. “Weren’t we supposed to talk about ‘Stray Dogs?’” Lee asks Tsai atone point, referring to one of their more recent collaborations together. Tsaiis mirthful in his response, for he’s spent most of the running time talkingabout bigger, broader subjects. Tsai opens up to Lee about how he might bedying, for example—whether or not this is something he’s telling Lee for thefirst time is unknown, because it’s presented like it might be as such, and Leehas a most excellent poker face. Production crew members also occasionally pop into thesides of frame or ask questions of the two when things get quiet. Tsai talks at length about life, the afterlife, hishomosexuality, his platonic relationship to Lee, whom he sees as essentially alife partner, someone whom he was destined to meet, and their work together inthe past two decades. What the viewer—acting as a pseudo-therapist—learns from“Afternoon” is that the death-preoccupied Tsai, having retired from hisfilmmaking career (despite working in a smaller capacity these days), wants todocument this conversation for posterity and really make it understood to bothLee and their public that he truly loves his muse. Their working relationship,over twenty years long, is a fascinating one, and since no one has bothered todocument it, Tsai steps in to do the job. His tender and repeated articulationsof how highly he values Lee in his life unspool in slow fashion, giving us thebreathing room to appreciate why the director set up this rather strangefilming exercise in the first place. Advertisement This is not a film for people unfamiliar with Tsai and Lee’swork. It’s a film for cinephiles who loved “Stray Dogs.” Some have called “Afternoon”more a “DVD extra” than a real film, but I disagree—like other Tsai films, itestablishes its own slow representation of time and the way human interactionsand performances play out. Like with other Tsai films, we become acutely awareof the space in the film—the lush greenery that peeps into the windows, a sunnycontrast to the muted dilapidated interiors. The results are sublime,reminiscent of the intimacy of “My Dinner with Andre” and thethinking-through-ideas processes of “This is Not a Film.” “Afternoon” is notTsai’s swan song, nor is it a footnote. Like with the rest of his oeuvre, westruggle to define his cinema in a meaningful way, but remain transfixed by itsbeauty.