“Miles Ahead” is a film of ugly, bold bravado. Images move in and out of focus, at times withoutreason. The camera often sits in unexpected places—down an alley near the dumpster,languidly careening from one person’s mouth to another during a conversation, holding onto thecorner of a face. There are so many textures and sounds and colors to the film—sheened afros,silk the color of ocean water and crimson, supple dark brown skin, glimmering diamonds, bloodmarring the collar of a crisp tan shirt, unhinged laughter—it veers toward sensory overload. It’sthis impressionistic flavor that gives the film its crackling, memorable energy. But the momentthat got under my skin is perhaps the quietest one in the film. It’s the aftermath of a fightbetween     Miles Davis    (     Don Cheadle    ) and his wife/muse, Frances Taylor (     Emayatzy Corinealdi    ).She wakes up in bed to find a pile of gifts lying next to her—fine furs, dresses, and glimmeringjewels. Miles can’t (or won’t) see it when he comes behind her to place the diamond and rubynecklace around her neck but her face looks like a seam about to split. The jewels seem lessbeautiful when you realize they’re in memory of wounds Miles has inflicted. The look of painedyearning across Frances’ face communicates their marriage is doomed more than any momentprior.Advertisement “Miles Ahead” could have easily become a piece of treacly hagiography, more caught up in blackcool rather than the suffering that underscores it. It’s to Don Cheadle’s credit—who notonly stars as Miles but directed, produced, and co-wrote the film—that he doesn’t fall into thetrap that far too many biopics do where the actor is so caught up worshiping the legend they’replaying that they can’t see them for the complicated, at times even vile, human beings they really are.Cheadle chooses to eschew many expectations by zeroing in on Miles’ fallow period in the late1970s and providing surprising flashbacks that jolt us through his past.When we meet Miles, he’s a ragged sketch of a man. He’s falling apart even though his bravadocould fool you otherwise, at least for a moment. The framing device involves Miles interviewedby Dave (     Ewan McGregor    ), a     Rolling Stone    reporter eager to find out what Miles has been upto during the years of his absence. Dave quickly gets swept up in the chaotic world of hissubject, who just as quickly turns his discerning gaze on him as he does himself. The main plotinvolves a mysterious session tape that Miles’ record company is eager to get their hands on.The tape entices a slimy manager, Harper Hamilton (     Michael Stuhlbarg    ), entwined in theproceedings, who tries to use it to boost the career of his incredibly talented, junkie client, Junior(     Keith Stanfield    ). This plotline and Dave’s entire existence is pure fiction. None of this shouldwork, but the mix of unexpected humor, genuine pathos, and bristling energy is enough toforgive the 1970s plot thread for its faults. Biopics work best when not focusing on the minutiaeof fidelity but on the emotional truths of their subjects.Cheadle’s performance is pure elegant vulgarity. He curses as if he is speaking poetry. Hecarries himself like a man who has lived a thousand lives. He cares less about Miles’ cool thanhe does about the tragedies he’s inflicted upon himself and others. The way he cares for theman is evident in his performance by the honesty that comes with each moment, whether it beMiles whipping out a gun in Columbia Records or asking Frances to marry him as two nakedwomen lie in his bed in the next room. The performance echoes his work as Mouse in the neo-noir “Devil in a Blue Dress” but there’s more pathos and craft here. Cheadle keenly understandsthe darkness of Miles but doesn’t condescend. Instead he presents all his contradictions andguises—the addict, the sharply dressed genius, the madman, the lover, the unfaithful yet lovinghusband.The film finds a sense of balance through a few great supporting performances.McGregor brings an engaging levity to the proceedings and creates a comfortable rapport withCheadle. The push and pull between them is the stuff of legendary buddy/cop dynamics. AsJunior, who feels like a curious mirror to Miles, Stanfield has some standout moments thatdeliver on the promise he presented in “     Short Term 12    ." But if the Miles/Dave dynamic was allthere was to the film. it would be a fun, occasionally astute, creative piece of work but it wouldn’tbe wholly memorable beyond the performances. The film finds its true emotional epicenter whenit pivots back to the past, focusing on the courtship (then troubled marriage) between Miles andFrances.Advertisement Frances doesn’t appear in any of present day scenes except when fantasy and reality crash intoone another and he sees an image of her which shouldn’t be in his home or hears her voice asif she is coming around the corner. She’s the wound of his past he can not stitch; a ghostappearing when he least expects it.Muses aren’t wholly people or at least they’re rarely allowed to be. So often in the biopics ofartists, their muse figures feel less like wholly realized women and more like myths. When twoartists get into a relationship, particularly a heterosexual one, only one tends to remain thecreative. The other becomes caretaker, lover, muse, a tabula rasa to be reflected on, a sourceof energy to be drained. When Miles meets Frances she’s a dancer of incredible grace.We don’t get their marriage chronologically instead we chart the downfall of their love affair as ifmoving through memory. The past and present bleed onto each other. A word or sound causesMiles’ reverie to pivot to his wedding day or the night he’s so delirious after surgery he imaginesthat Frances is cheating on him and grows unhinged in his abuse.Frances is a role that could easily be a shrill punchline, an empty emblem to show Miles’ issues.But Corinealdi is too assured an actress with too strong a presence to be sidelined. Cheadle’sperformance, which is perhaps the best of his career, or at least the most inventive, could easilysubsume hers. Miles is like the sun pulling everyone into his orbit, or, more aptly, a black holefew escape. But Corinealdi emboldens Frances with an intelligence and steeliness that is hardto ignore. She easily holds her own against Cheadle even stealing a few scenes from him in theprocess. I want to revisit the film again and again to study the way she uses her body, voice, andgaze to create such a beautifully realized performance. With just the slow drag of a cigarette ordowncast eye, she communicates an entire history.In the scenes of their courtship, there are moments of startling beauty seeing these two dark-skinned actors beautifully lit, creating and inspiring each other; falling in love. Part of the beauty is in how rare such an image is of two dark-skinned black artists given humanity. But the Eden theycreate for each other is short-lived. As their relationship grows more intense, he doesn’t changehis ways but expects her to. After being beaten by white cops and spending a few hours in jail,the couple is back to the comfort of their own home. She tenderly bathes him. It’s then he asksher to give up dancing for good, as if he role as his wife is enough to feed her soul. Francesreels back in disgust and anger. But she eventually agrees. It’s a decision she comes to regret.Advertisement It’s also a mistake I’ve seen many women make. Eventually the weight of Miles’ faults becometoo heavy for even Frances’ love to bear.The story of their love and the artist/muse dynamic that underscores itcould be a film on its own, perhaps even a better one than what we got.As a director, Cheadle is able to deftly shift between time periods, moods, music and tones. Thelush cinematography, inventive editing, which is more interested in capturing emotion thanoutright clarity, and crackling energy makes this film less a biopic and more a poem in motionabout one of the most important American artists of the last one hundred years. It does justiceto Miles Davis by turning a light into the darkest corners of his soul while still giving him addedcomplexity with dashes of lurid humor and the flashbacks that show him at better times.Still, “Miles Ahead” unravels at the end under the weight of the frankly ridiculous mainnarrative about the session tape. There’s one too many fired guns, car chases, overcookedmoments overloaded with machismo, and bloodied fist for it to stay grounded emotionally. Butthere is a quiet brilliance to the film that left me electrified, inspired, challenged like all greatfilms should. It doesn’t wholly work, but when it does it sings.