Mike Flanagan’s “Hush,” which premiered at the SXSW FilmFestival last month before popping up on Netflix today, is an old-fashioned homeinvasion thriller that works on its own modest terms. It’s one of those simplehorror flicks that’s so streamlined it feels long even at only 82 minutes. It might have worked better as a short film or installment of an anthologyseries like “Masters of Horror,” but Flanagan has a notable skill in buildingtension and then just allowing it to simmer. He doesn’t resort to the jumpscare tactics that mar so many similar low-budget films. In fact, the mostterrifying, shocking moments in “Hush” typically come without the loud musiccue or pouncing cat that producers commonly think is necessary to get you jumping.There are choices in the final act that I won’t spoil but really didn’twork for me (the script foreshadows it, which made me dread its inevitabilityeven more), but this is a better-than-average, essentially-VOD thriller for theweekend that could offer a glimpse at the future of festival-to-streamingtitles. Advertisement Maddie (Kate Siegel) is a deaf-mute writer, living in a secluded home. It’s a set-up that short story masterStephen Kingwould love,and it’s no coincidence that we see hisMr.Mercedeson a dresser. The film’s greatest strength is highlighted in thefirst scene, as Maddie cooks dinner: the sound design. We hear eggs cracking,onions being sliced, asparagus sizzling on the stove—and then the sound fallsaway as we close in on her face. She has been deaf since the age of 13, and weget a bit more of her history and the way her mind works when neighbor/friendSarah comes over for a brief visit (Samantha Sloyan). After Sarah leaves, Maddie goes back to cooking. We see ascreaming Sarah run toward her kitchen door, pounding on it for help, butMaddie is completely unaware, even as a crossbow-wielding maniac (JohnGallagher Jr. of “10 Cloverfield Lane” and “Short Term 12,” very good hereagainst type) slices Sarah’s throat about ten feet from her neighbor. He evenknocks on the door. Maddie doesn’t respond. The masked killer becomesfascinated with Maddie, and decides he wants to prolong her fate and play gameswith her. He starts by stealing her cell phone and texting her pictures ofherself that night. Then, even after the cat has revealed himself to the mouse,he doesn’t just kill her. In “Hush,” the psychotic killer’s motives are vague,so if he’s just a lunatic killing for fun, why not have a little bit more ofit? Flanagan is surprisingly reserved with “Hush” in that a lotof filmmakers would have fallen back on more tricks to keep theaudience engaged in what is a largely silent film. He doesn’t allow the unnamed“Man” to monologue his way through the movie. He doesn’t amp up the score (atleast until the final act). He really lets his set-up work for the middle 40minutes of the film as our only two characters move toward the inevitableclimax. And he saves a few surprises for the final act. Not all of those surprises work. “Hush” works bestthe less you know where it’s going, so I won’t spoil anything, but there some devices in the finale felt a little cheap to me. They’re minorcomplaints for a film that really works for what it is, even if it isn't particularly new. We watch horror thrillers like “Hush” not to see thewheel reinvented but just to see it spin well. This movie spins. Advertisement