The latest example of what I call an emperor’s-new-clothesfilm is “Neon Bull,” by Brazilian directorGabriel Mascaro, which escorts us into the world ofnortheastern Brazil’svaquejadarodeos. It was a buzz-generatinghit at last fall’s Venice and Toronto festivals, and it does have one inarguable strength: a kind ofanthropological interest, which is rendered with what one must assume iscertain quotient of documentary-like accuracy. Mascaro mostly avoids the fleeing excitements of the bull ring in orderto focus on a small group of characters who function as kind of a de factoitinerant family. Iremar (Juliano Cazarré) is a muscular and studly cowhand whodevotes his off time to designing clothes, including skimpy stage outfits forexotic dancer Galega (Maeve Jinkings), a Shakira lookalike who drives thecompany’s truck and tends to her young daughter, Cacá (Aline Santana). Thegroup’s other member is a corpulent cowhand named Zé (Carlos Pessao).Advertisement Still, its success may owe in partto the kind of exaggerated responses that festival premieres often provoke. AndI would venture there are a couple of other potential causes that stem from theparticularkindof festival film itis. First, it’s the kind made outside of Europe and America buttailored for festivals in those places. Fans of international cinema who readaccounts of premieres of a South American film at, say, Cannes may assume thatsaid film was for made for the Brazilian market but happily discovered bydiscerning and venturesome French programmers. In reality, many of these filmswere created specifically for programmers and juries at internationalfestivals, to whom they appeal by A) adapting the currently approved stylisticnorms for “art” films, and B) viewing their native cultures in ways that willbe seen as appealinglyexoticbyEuropeans and Americans. (Whether you love or loathe their films, evenestimable filmmakers such as Taiwan’sHou Hsiao-hsienand Thailand’sApichatpong Weerasethakulhave become “world cinema” auteurs by employingthis dual strategy.) Second, “Neon Bull” is the kind of film that also bowsstrategically to other current cultural orthodoxies, specifically some ratherdubious ones imported from academia. Consider the headline onThe Hollywood Reporter’s review of thefilm, which determines that its “exploration of body and gender norms [makes]up for a lack of narrative.” Translated into plain English, what that means is:The filmis essentially boring because its story is minimal and un-involving. Butbecause its concerns can related to ‘body and gender norms,’ which universitycurricula now consider as important as previous centuries considered the VirginBirth and Holy Trinity, it must be deemed important and meaningful.Yet does the film have anything really cogent to say aboutthose nominal subjects, or do the “body and gender” labels disguise somethingmore pat and retrograde? Mascaro spends much of the film’s length observing thesecharacters as they sleep in hammocks and go about their daily routines. Thecharacters are given no real depth—they’re types more than people—and thenarrative has practically zero dramatic tension or development. There’s ageneral ambiance of sensuality which is upped a couple of notches when porky Zéis replaced by young, lean, long-haired Junior (Vinicius de Oliveira), andindeed the erotic intimations here are virtually the only things to sustainviewer attention. Advertisement Sex, almost by default, ends up being all the film has tosell. We get to see a horse being masturbated. And the climactic scene shows us Iremar’s erection ashe mounts and has sex with a woman who’s nine months pregnant. That’s all? Well, yes. That’s it. What does it say? Thatmiddle-class festival audiences in Europe and America derive a certain pleasurefrom watching sex scenes involving lower-class (and hence “naturally” sensualif not essentially animalistic) foreigners, as long as such prurientattractions can be described as exploring “body and gender norms”? No doubt.And the imperious cultural self-deception in that process would be laughable ifit weren’t so sympathetic.