"One More Time" begins with a rather inspired kind of fake out. Ayoung man and a young woman, in a clinch after what was probably an inebriatedpick-up, are at the man’s place. The man puts on a vinyl LP, which denotes whatit denotes, and what comes from the hi-fi is an old-style crooner singing “Thebarman and I are on very good terms … ” And the woman demands he turn it off andput something else on. Which the man does. Smart man. The woman, the viewer learns in the subsequentfrantic morning-after scene, is a bedraggled but still fetchingAmber Heard,who runs out of nameless guy’s apartment and staggers into a recording session.Nothing fancy: she’s part of a girl group laying down radio station jingles.But she’s clearly talented. And struggling, as the next scene shows her packingup and leaving an apartment from which she’s been evicted. Advertisement Heard’s character, named Jude, drives out to what seems tobe a pretty sweet setup: a sprawling house in the Hamptons owned by her dad, Paul Lombard (Christopher Walken) who used to be a big crooner in theTony Bennettmode. While retired, he still dreams of the spotlight, not justfor reasons of ego but on account of what his ego demands. As cozy as his houseis, he bitches that it’s in “the slums of the Hamptons,” not even ON the beach.Paul wants to drive his latest comeback with his first songwriting effort, a pieceof sub-Cole-Porter doggerel that opens “If I’d been born in Hindustan/I’dreincarnate like the Hindus can.” As it happens the Hamptons house is crowded with otherconflicts. Jude’s younger sister Korinne (Kelli Garner) is married to Tim(Hamish Linklater), a onetime ex of Jude’s; they have a difficult young son.(In a manner that’s somewhat typical of these setups, Walken’s character is onoccasion seen instructing the boy in how to be inappropriate.) Paul’s also onhis fifth or maybe sixth wife,Ann Magnuson’s Lucille, who’s disliked by prettymuch everybody but Paul. And Jude herself, struggling with booze, a surly attitude, a married lover and big, big daddy issues that daddyhimself only ever makes worse, is a spectacular hot mess on her own. Thefather-daughter sparring is pretty funny; after Paul disparages Jude for herwork in a post-punk trio whose name should probably not be reproduced here,Jude shoots back, “I notice your contempt for our music didn’t stop you frombanging our drummer.” It doesn’t take long to put the two-and-two together;Jude can’t stand to hear that “barman” song not because of her own alcoholism,but because of the guy who’s singing it. The whole cast (which also includesOliver Plattas asimpatico family solicitor) sinks its teeth into the material, which isreasonably meaty. While Garner’s character keeps comparing turns of events to“something out of Mamet,” the family dynamics recall Chekhov if not O’Neill.This movie doesn’t plumb to the depths of the latter or reach the heights ofthe former, but it’s not nothing. The depiction of the music scene milieus ismore convincing than is customary (interestingly, Garner, whose character isreferred to as the family member without musical talent, also served as one ofthe guitar coaches for the movie’s singing-and-playing performers), the songsare decent (the composer is longtime veteran of New York cabaretJoe McGinty),and the movie’s denouement is convincingly low-key. Advertisement