“Go through hell and look cool doing it.” That’s the vibe Igot from the poster for "Demolition," which uses a neatly quartered (with onesegment slightly askew) portrait of its male lead,Jake Gyllenhaal, sportingexpensive shades and wearing expensive headphones. Is that an overly simplisticreading of the actual film? Yes. But it’s also true that the movie, costarringNaomi Wattsand directed byJean-Marc Vallée, doesn’t exactly shy away fromthose semiotics. “Demolition” opens with Gyllenhaal’s Davis Mitchell and wifeJulia (Heather Lind) driving around New York City and having what seems to be atetchy power-couple morning. He’s preoccupied, she’s frustrated, and they’re ona phone call with her parents. The viewer can’t get a read on the marriage:it’s strained is a good guess, but whether it’s truly crummy or justcircumstantially challenged is impossible to tell. Speculation becomes mootwhen an auto accident leaves Julia dead and Davis without a scratch. Advertisement Davis is zombied out. He can’t get an M&Ms bag from thehospital’s vending machine, and he writes an uncharacteristically confessionalletter to the vending machine’s parent company. He can’t cry at his wife’sfuneral. His father-in-law Phil (Chris Cooper), who’s also his boss at afinancial shark tank, advises him to take apart his life and reexamine it.Davis, who’s also found that he can no longer lie effectively, takes thiscounsel literally, and begins to physically dismantle various appliances. Andhe continues pouring what’s left of his heart out to vending machine customerservice, whose human form is that of Naomi Watts. If Davis’ prior life was a cold slate-grey corporate mess,the life of Watts' Karen is a lukewarm, pot-haze suffused suburban one, completewith a teen son (Judah Lewis) who’s a handful of rock and roll attitude. You can tell theextent to which this whole movie’s narrative and its attendant lessons are big timebits of boomer wish fulfillment contrivance by the fact that it offers up, inthis day and age, a fifteen-year-old who’s obsessively into Eric Burdon, DavidBowie, and vintage Free. The kid, of course, becomes an eager accomplice asDavis, looking for answers, takes down his entire house. In which he does,indeed, discover an important clue. The yuppie-finding-his-soul scenario is a very old and notparticularly compelling one, and the fact that this film borrows elements from“Regarding Henry,” “American Beauty,” Saul Bellow’s “Herzog,” and the JimCarrey “Liar, Liar,” for heaven’s sake, does not exactly redound to itsbenefit. However, Vallée directs with no small amount of verve andenergy, as if he genuinely believes he can bring something new to thisparticular table. The actors show similar commitment, with Gyllenhaal conveyinginner emptiness and/or confusion in a smartly understated way. While Watts isreliably vulnerable, it’s Judah Lewis as her son Chris who does the heavieremotional lifting. The scenario does contain a couple of unexpected stings inits tale, which almost makes the inevitable redemption payoff play a littleless pat than it might have under different circumstances. But not THAT muchless pat. Advertisement