There are no truly sympatheticcharacters in "11 Minutes," a new thriller directed by Polish NewWave masterJerzy Skolimowski("Deep End," "EssentialKilling"). Don'teven try to remember these people by name; this isn't that kind of movie. Justwatch "11 Minutes" like you're channel-surfing, only you don't havethe remote and the roar of static between stations is steadily growing louderas the channels switch back-and-forth, faster and faster. There's the hot dogvendor (Andrzej Chyra) who shamelessly flirts with any woman who passes hiscart. And the young actress (Paulina Chapko) who submits to a sleazy auditionwith a small-time wannabe producer (Richard Dormer). And the actress's husband(Wojciech Mecwaldowski). And a drug runner (Dawid Ogrodnik). And a group ofparamedics. And a new divorcee (Ifi Ude). And more. And more. And more. Advertisement You might not be impressed by "11 Minutes" if you reduce the film toits thematic hardline: we cannot glean capital-T Truth from surveillancetechnology—whether camera-phones or CCTVs—designed to unite oursubjective realities' disparate fragments. You might also be disappointed ifyou read the film looking for a Big Idea from a master filmmaker. But "11Minutes" should not be pigeonholed by its explosive climax, thougheverything in the film seems to depend on how you read the conclusion.Skolimowski masterfully disorients viewers with a series of seemingly unrelatedvignettes that ultimately meet up, but not in the way you might expectbased on everything-is-connected dramas like "Babel" and"Crash." "11 Minutes" is the work of an olderfilmmaker, but it's not an old man's film. He's angry and alienated bytechnology, but his film is playful in the same way that the best thrillers byHitchcock studentsJohn Carpenter,Brian De Palma, andDario Argentoperverselymess with your expectations. You have to submit to the filmmakers' cantankerouswhims, and be willing to be led around by the nose to get the most out of"11 Minutes." Skolimowski tiesthese characters' stories so close together that you're never really surewho they are. And that's OK. "11 Minutes" is a modernisttestament to the chaos created by the sheer ubiquity of digitalcameras. Consider how muchemphasis Skolimowski places on coincidence. Everything can be explained bychance, making the film's introductory sequence—most of the film's principalcharacters talk into digital cameras of various shapes and sizes—a barbedindictment of technology and the un-interrogative images that they frequentlycreate. So Ude is stalked by her ex-husband, who has covertly placed a cameraon her dog's collar. And Dormer's camera is strictly for show: it's anintimidation tactic, one whose footage, placement, and perspective areultimately pointless. There is, in other words, a big question at playhere: why should everybody have a camera if not everybody is an artist? That may sound like ahaughty question, but it's a fascinating one as it's expressed throughout"11 Minutes." Take this film's ticking clock plot—you don't knowwhat will happen, but a metronome-like chime periodically reminds viewers thata distended 11 minute time-frame is leading us somewhere—at face value. Skolimowski jokes about the self-centered nature of people andartists, like the little old painter who watches an actor dive off a bridge,and then get fished out by a crew of divers. The painter remains unconcerned asthe actor is retrieved. The painter doesn't know or care that a film isbeing shot near him, and that the man who just jumped off of a nearby bridge isjust performing a dangerous stunt. The only thing the painter knows is thatthere is a splotch of ink on his canvas, and it's not where it should be.Is this the kind of myopia that laypeople, armed only with a camera and thedesire to use it to document themselves, want to introduce into theirquotidian lives? Or is there a short-sighted-ness inherent in all people, thekind that prevents us fromseeing/empathizing/understanding all things at all times? It's a bit of both,really, and that's what makes "11 Minutes" such a deceptively simplethriller. Turn on, tune in, burn out. Advertisement