Joachim Trier’s “Louder Than Bombs” is interested in theintersection between grief and memory, and how difficult it is to capture botheither through photography or film. It is a movie that comments on its ownpurpose (as co-writerEskil Vogt’s “Blind” did as well) by making one of itsmost essential characters a conflict area photographer, someone who oncelamented the difficulty in maintaining focus on the specific people shechronicles and not turning them into universal examples. Trier, a masterfulfilmmaker who has already delivered must-sees in “Oslo, August 31” and “Reprise,” navigates an incredibly tricky minefield of mourning, regret and thedetailed minutiae that makes up our lives. It is a statement on life and deaththat opens with a newborn baby’s hand but is primarily about how we processloss. Sometimes its meandering approach can feel a bit more detached than inTrier’s best work, but this is ultimately a delicate, complex film thatlingers, unpacking itself in your mind. You remember it in the same kind of fragmented images that haunt its characters. Advertisement The baby hand belongs to the new son of Jonah (JesseEisenberg), a birth that has turned his father Gene (Gabriel Byrne, doing hisbest work since “In Treatment”) into a grandpa and his brother Conrad (DevinDruid) into an uncle. The arrival of a new branch in this family tree spurnsmemories of the lost matriarch of this clan, Isabelle (Isabelle Huppert), butit also sends Jonah off on his own unique path. Major events like birth anddeath have a way of redefining the way we perceive the world, and not in atreacly moral-message-movie way, but even in just the way we practically interactwith one another. Perhaps realizing that being a father really closes a chapteron his youth, Jonah rekindles an affair with someone from his past, a womannamed Erin (Rachel Brosnahan), who happens to be losing her mother. Meanwhile, the younger Conrad is adrift. He doesn’t havemany friends in high school, and can’t connect with his father, who is hidingthe fact that he’s sleeping with Conrad’s teacher, Hannah (Amy Ryan). Genetries to call Conrad, and even follows him around town to see what he’s doing.When he reaches him and asks him where he is, Conrad, sittingalone on a swing set, lies and says he’s with friends. It breaks a father’sheart. Conrad is fascinated by a girl in his class named Melanie (Ruby Jerins),sometimes even thinking she’s the magical key to his future. Trier’s film evendips into magical realism, such as when Conrad moves his hand like a magician andMelanie’s hair blows in the wind. Sometimes, especially in our most egocentricteen years, we think we can make the object of affection's mind move because want it to. In a sense, the world revolves around Conrad—his unaware crush, his avatars in the online game he plays every night, his grief over the loss of his mother—and his journey in "Louder Than Bombs" is one of learning that other people have needs, wants and secrets as well. A story is coming out in theNew York Timesthat will tell “the true story” about Isabelle,who died in a car accident. Did she kill herself? Was she meeting a lover?Jonah and Gene know the truth but have kept it from Conrad, and they disagreeover whether or not he’s ready to learn it. How do we remember those we lost? It’s often not like the bigmoments of typical Hollywood cinema but a minor one, like Conrad’sbeautiful memory of his mother pretending not to see him hiding behind someclothes on a line. And how do we capture grief? Can photography, fiction orfilm possibly convey that which cannot really be put into words? Trier wiselyknows the limitations of his form, even including a line like, “Mom once showedme how she could change the meaning of a picture by framing it differently.” Hehas not made a movie that purports to have any answers, doing what Isabelle didin that he frames a specific story for universal purpose. Advertisement Trier’s film is at its best when it’s graceful and simple.Working with regular cinematographerJakob Ihre, he’s very interested in thehumanity of his characters, returning to images of hair, eyes, kissing mouths.The film is surprisingly striking visually, finding beauty in both cheerleader bodieshurtling through the air and a car that has just crashed head-on into a truck. OlaFløttum’s minimal, effective score works subtly to add another layer of griefthat doesn’t feel manipulative or overdone. Sometimes Trier’s approach can edge into directionless and Iwanted parts of “Louder Than Bombs” to feel moreemotionally raw. It’s a film that’s remarkably interior, as Jonah and Conrad’sinternal monologues are raging in ways that an author would be able to conveybut a filmmaker has to find different ways to do so. In one remarkable scene,Jonah reads aloud a collection of notes that his brother has saved on hislaptop about random feelings, stats about his day, and general details of life.Sometimes Trier’s film feels like a riff on that document, capturing fragmentsof memory for the record. When it’s done, Jonah says something else that feelslike a meta-commentary on the film itself: “It’s really weird, but interesting.It’s really … it’s really good.”