“Class Divide,” a fascinating documentary byMarc LevinandDaphne Pinkerson, focuses on a macrocosm and a microcosm, both within the urbansprawl of New York City. The macrocosm is the slice of Manhattan known as WestChelsea, which in the last decade has seen a real estate boom spurred in partby the success of the innovative urban park known as the High Line. The microcosm is the intersection of 10thAvenueand 26thStreet, where one of the most elite and pricey K-12 schoolsin the city faces a housing project that contains some of Manhattan’s poorestfamilies, whose kids attend public or parochial schools. While the filmcontains interviews with all sorts of adults involved with the locations itconcerns, some of its most illuminating comments come from kids on the twosides of 10thAvenue, who reflect on their circumstances and thefortunes life has given them. Advertisement As its title indicates, the film is concerned with the issueof class in America and specifically New York City, but it embraces manysubjects, appropriately for a city that contains multitudes. One of the mostengrossing—and visually engaging—is the back story of the High Line andWest Chelsea’s development. For much of the last century, the area wasindustrial, with elevated trains that would, for example, bring in turkeys tobe slaughtered and exit with their meat. But over time the industries graduallydeparted and the train tracks became derelict structures that begged to be torndown. In 1999, two Chelsea residents began a then-lonely crusadeto turn the abandoned railway into an outdoor elevated park. It took years forthem to win over other residents and New York power brokers, but by 2006construction began and the first section of the High Line opened three yearslater (two more sections have opened since). The park was an instant smash. Foranyone who hasn’t visited the popular tourist attraction, “Class Divide” amplydocuments its appeal as a wonderfully cinematic window onto the Hudson River onone side and the great panorama of downtown Manhattan on the other. In what may be this story’s sharpest irony, the real estateindustry, which had been the High Line’s fiercest opponent, became its primarybeneficiary. Property values soared and a building boom ensued. Longtimeresidents were hustled out of their apartments, neighborhood character changeddrastically as chic restaurants and designer shops replaced corner delis, andarchitects seemed swept up in a contest to see who could outdo the others intrendy ostentation. And there’s more to come. The development of Hudson Yards,one expert says, will result in a “Hong Kong on the Hudson [with] 13residential buildings, some of which are 60 to 90 stories.” Advertisement The filmmakers very deftly interweave this tale of urbantransformation with their portraits of the two very different communities thatborder 10thAvenue. “Avenues: The World School” is as sleek andhi-tech as its $47,000 annual tuition would suggest: but for the youth of itsdenizens, it could be a Google or Apple campus. The Elliot-Chelsea Houses, onthe other hand, hearken back to an earlier era when “projects” and “ghetto”became depressingly synonymous. Talking with the residents of these different worlds, andcontrasting their different lives, is where the film’s heart and greatestinsights reside. To the filmmakers’ credit, they seem to approach theirsubjects with no simplistic agenda but a genuine desire to engage andunderstand everyone they meet. Yet their inquiry suggests one consequence ofthe growing economic inequality that afflicts American society: the presence ofthe interviewers’ cameras notwithstanding, youngsters on both sides of theclass divide seem beset with an ever-increasing sensitivity regarding their ownstatus. The mostly white, upper-class kids at Avenues (which, togive due credit, does have some scholarship students) are aware of the povertythat stares at them from across the street, and of their own privileged lives.Some also seem to feel like they’re caught in a trap. While they might like tochange the world they’re inheriting, they’re also under tremendous pressure tosucceed by those who are giving them their advantages. The families in Elliott-Chelsea are also aware of theeffects of wealth, but from the perspective of those who must suffer its lack.They are often just scraping by, trying to stay together, with the parentsregretting the things they can’t give their kids and the kids worrying overboth their parents’ hardships and their own prospects. Among thebasketball-playing male adolescents, there’s an interesting dialectic betweensome who seem resigned to their dependent, lower-class status and others whoare fiercely determined to break out of it. There are remarkable youngsters on both sides of thisdivide. At Avenues, 17-year-old Yasemin Smallens creates a project called “115Steps,” for the number of steps it takes to walk from the school to the housingproject. It’s aimed at facilitating dialogue between people on the two sides ofthe street, and the examples we see in the film of these conversations areindeed thought-provoking and memorable. Then there’s the little girl who pretty much steals theshow. Her name is Rosie, and she’s an eight-year-old from the projects who has the brightest personality you may see on any screen this year. She’s feisty, smart(she wants to be a professor of geology at Columbia, or a surgeon), spunky,super-observant and opinionated, saying things like, “I hate money. I hate,hate, hate, hate, hate, hate money … Money was made by the Devil, I think,because God didn’t say, ‘Oh, you have to pay for this.'” After getting a tour of Avenues, Rosie applies for ascholarship, but the end of the film reveals she was turned down. Let’s hopethat those who encounter Rosie’s delightful presence in “Class Divide”—including, perhaps, her idol Beyoncé—will begin a petition to get thatregrettable decision reversed. Advertisement