The Israeli film “Wedding Doll,” written and directed byNitzan Gilady, has an unusual amount of pictorial beauty, both of the harsh andsoft varieties. The harshness, or at least starkness, is provided by the NegevDesert, around which the movie is set. Its golden planes and imposingpromontories are spectacular and a bit intimidating. The soft beauty is providedby the film’s lead actress, the brightly open-facedMoran Rosenblatt, who playsHagit, a mentally disabled young woman who has an uncanny talent: she craftslovely little dolls using toilet paper and the rolls it comes on as her mainmaterial. Advertisement Hagit has a job at the small factory that manufactures saidhousehold staple, and the place isn’t doing so well. The owner wants to shut itdown, but his ambitious son Omri (Roy Assaf) wants to innovate; either way,she’ll be out of a job. To forestall this, Hagit has her mom Sara (Assi Levy)drive her to a gown shop, where she hopes to work as a seamstress. Her haltingspeech and awkward manner mean she’s going to get the high hat, and she gets avariation on that quite a bit, even from a school kid who bounces a soccer ballat her and calls her “weirdo.” It’s worse than that: Hagit and her mom are estranged fromother members of the family, including Hagit’s brother, whose infant child wasonce almost accidentally dropped by his sister. Omri is carrying on with Hagita bit behind everybody’s back, insisting that he keep their relationship secret(Omri is also less than truthful to his buddies, who make a fine trio ofnarrow-minded small townvitellonitobe sure). Hagit is convinced that she’s on the fast track to marriage with Omriwhether the factory closes or not. Oy. As much intriguing local detail and sharpcharacterization writer/director Gilady brings to bear on this concise tale,the tale itself depicts the beautiful and often uncomprehending Hagit gettinglet down over and over again. It’s heartbreaking. I understand that the vieweris meant to be won over, and possibly inspired, by the character’s resilience.And while the movie’s disinclination to give Hagit any kind of break,fairy-tale or otherwise, speaks well of its commitment to a kind of realism,the depiction of provincial bigotry against differently-abled folk is, whilelikely accurate, also just plain depressing. The integrity of the filmmakingand the luminosity of Rosenblatt’s performance are undeniable. And I supposethe fact that I was affected as I was by “Wedding Doll” is testimony to itsemotional effectiveness. But while Hagit is able to crack a smile at themovie’s end, I feel a pall wrapping around me every time I contemplate her predicament,or the predicament of her real-life models. Advertisement