The debate about what does and does not constitute Art rages—althoughquite politely—at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. One would imaginethat anything within the Met's revered galleries and extensive collectionswould receive the benefit of the doubt in regards to its stature as Art. Evenso, there's still a battle over the status of fashion among the museum'scurators and people involved in the fashion world. The Met's Costume Institute is housed in the museum'slowest level, meaning that its collection is physically and, hence,figuratively seen as occupying the basement of Art. Some designers assumethey're creating art, and others believe the notion of fashion designers beingseen as or, worse, calling themselves artists is "boring" oregotistical. Advertisement After a slow-motion montage of celebrities in designerfashions on a red carpet, director Andrew Rossi's "The First Monday inMay" addresses the debate about fashion's status as Art in thedocumentary's opening scenes. The movie's conclusion is: of course, fashion isArt, or at least that's what we're apparently expected to garner from themontage of intricately, ornately designed pieces from famous designers of thecontemporary and modern eras. Later, Rossi returns to the dispute in a bit more detail(mostly by juxtaposing interviews with fashion designers who are of opposingopinions on the subject), but by that point, it doesn't matter. The movie hasanswered the question for itself, and it has moved on to its real purpose: tooffer an inside look at the creation of the Costume Institute's 2015 exhibitabout fashions inspired by Chinese culture. Such exhibitions have become majorpublic events, thanks to the star-attended gala on the day of the title thatmarks a Met fashion exhibit's opening. It's such an event that the date of theparty joins Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's Day as the only four days onwhich the Met closes its doors to the general public. The party is orchestrated byAnna Wintour, theeditor-in-chief ofVoguewho alsoserves on the Met's board of trustees (Additionally, her name is attached to themuseum's Costume Institute). The creation of the exhibit is overseen by AndrewBolton, the curator of the Costume Institute. Both possess an air of authorityand wield a presumption of certainty that serve them well in their respectivepositions. Wintour's reputation, of course, precedes her, on accountof the book and the resulting film adaptation of "The Devil WearPrada," which did not—to put it diplomatically—portray her fictionalcounterpart in a particularly flattering light. Obviously, the documentarygives Wintour and others an opportunity to address that reputation. Thecounterargument is reasonable enough: She is particular in what she wants anddirect in how she states it, and if she were a man, no one would likely see aproblem with her manner. Bolton is as particular and direct as Wintour, althoughhe's quieter about it. When film directorWong Kar-Wai, who has been hired asthe artistic director of the exhibit, points out that placing a gallery focusedon the Mao era in a room featuring statues of the Buddha would be offensive,Bolton argues that the publicity from such controversy might be worth it. Boltonis a man who "trust[s] his instincts," even in the face of dissentfrom people, such as Wong and the administration of the Met's Asian artdepartment, who might know better than him. Advertisement The relatively civil head-butting over such notions iskey here. Rossi, given (and, perhaps but understandably, influenced by beingafforded) access to these meetings of knowledgeable but conflicting minds, framesthe debates, though, as stumbling blocks to the ultimate realization of Boltonand Wintour's visions. The movie gives about equal time to the planning of the opening-nightgala and the staging of the exhibit. Almost unavoidably, the celebrity-gossipnature of the party planning comes across more forcefully, with discussionsabout a headlining singer's fee, who should sit with whom at what table, andwhether or not a certain actor's recent career merits him receiving aninvitation. As for the exhibit, the movie shows agreements upon and dissentabout general design choices, as well as trips to Paris to visit the Yves SaintLaurent archives and to Beijing for a publicity tour that's met with localskepticism about the exhibit. All the while, a ticking clock counts down themonths, then hours, until the opening event. The two components—the gala and the exhibition itself—arevaguely representative of the larger debate surrounding the commercialinfluences on and aspects of artistic enterprises. Like so much else of anysignificant substance in "The First Monday in May," Rossi glossesover it, finding a more comfortable narrative within the passion of his centralsubjects. As for the exhibit, the question of its ultimate success is notjudged based on its cultural or curatorial merits but on whether or not itbreaks ticket-sales records and those celebrity guests like it.