The overthrow of a democratically elected leader, theimposition of a fascistic military strongman on a population, the years ofhuman rights abuses and crony capitalism that followed; the history of Chilefrom the early 1970s right into the early 20thcentury provides anygood liberal-minded thinking person plenty to get steamed about, and there havebeen plenty of fiction and non-fiction stories told about it during and afterthat time (including the much-bruited 1982Costa-Gavraspicture “Missing,”starringJack LemmonandSissy Spacek). “Colonia,” directed by FloranGallenberger from a script byTorsten Wenzeland the director, uses a little-knownwrinkle in Chile’s horrific narrative as its springboard. Advertisement The movie begins as a pretty conventional period romanticdrama.Emma Watson’s Lena is a stewardess (it’s 1973, female flight attendantsare still called that) for Lufthansa, and unlike her colleagues, she’s a littleadventurous in her love life: she’s involved with German-born activist Daniel(Daniel Bruhl), who’s rousing The People at a street rally as she’s on theshuttle from Santiago’s airport to her hotel. Lena hops off the bus and intoDaniel’s arms for a few blissful days of love and activism, and then, boom, thecoup hits, and they’re out on the streets. Daniel, so ardent he can’t helphimself, gets himself in big trouble with the militia after he’s spotted tryingto document their repressive activities with his camera. Lena and Daniel areshipped to a soccer stadium for processing and Daniel gets ratted out. Lena’slet go, and heartbroken. She soon finds out that Daniel’s likely been taken to thesouth, to the headquarters of a religious sect—actually, cult—run by anotherGerman, named Paul Schäfer. No, I’m not making this up. The moviemakers aren’teither. Paul Schäfer founded the real-life Colonia Dignidad (German religiousdiaspora to Latin America go back to the early 19thCentury,incidentally) in 1961, combining Baptist-style tenets, punitive agrarianlifestyles, and aggressive anti-Communism. The latter, especially, made him auseful tool for Pinochet, and the colony functioned, after the coup, as arepository for dissidents, who were tortured and imprisoned there. Afascinating, terrible place. One that might have more effectively conveyed tofilm viewers outside the strictures of a romance-based suspense picture. But,alas, this is the story of Colonia that we have been given. Lena, on learning of this place, dresses way down and hidesthere, trying to go undercover as a God-seeker. Schäfer himself, played witheffective imperious chilliness byMichael Nyqvist(who also manages anunnerving resemblance to the real-life figure) sees “through” Lena immediately,and has her unbutton her drab blouse to reveal a lacy bra underneath. Heaccepts her into his flock anyway, and soon she’s farming the land in sexuallysegregated non-splendor, keeping her eyes peeled for Daniel. Advertisement Daniel in the meantime has been beaten and tortured sothoroughly he’s believed to be brain-damaged. But he’s not, and he’s craftyenough to know not to let on. How they will find each other and what they’ll doonce that happens takes up some time, and the contrivances that follow are alittle over-determined. It’s very convenient that Lena is saved from a gangbeating by an alarm being tripped by Daniel,completely by coincidence. Once the couple is reunited, director Gallenberger doesmanage to ramp up some effective suspense depicting their efforts to escape.But these mechanics, in turn, diffuse what also wants to be a powerful story ofhuman rights abuse. Watson and Bruhl give it their best, and Nyqvist makes apowerful villain, but “Colonia” winds up being a movie that wants to get itsway on too many levels, and winds up not satisfying on most of them.