WhenFabienne Berthaud’s “Sky” opens, we’re with a Frenchcouple in a black Mustang convertible flying across some cinematicallyover-familiar scenery in the American West. There’s desert, cactus, blazing sunand endless sky. Bad rock music blasts on the soundtrack. Her blonde maneflutters in the wind as she leans back in her seat. She has a camera and theysometimes stop for her to take photographs. He’s the kind of guy who thinks helooks tough, and no doubt does—on the banks of the Seine. Advertisement These first few minutes suggest a particularly risible kindof bad European movie: the kind where the characters come to the far West ofthe U.S. and encounter little beyond clichés and boorish melodramaticsituations from the realm of cultural fantasy, much of it of course derivingfrom a lifetime of watching American movies. Are the French especially prone tothis kind of unintended silliness? “Sky” almost seems determined to prove they are. The thing is, it’s also the sort of awful movie that in someways isn’t half bad. Its craftsmanship is solid throughout. The acting isdecent, sometimes better. And it has the advantage of many road movies in thatits constant movement, changes of scene and unexpected twists at least keep youawake. Better this, you think, than the same nonsense played out over Gauloisesin a cramped Left Bank apartment. The screenplay’s lameness, though, announces itself earlyon. In a scene that obviously references one in “Five Easy Pieces,” the coupleare at a diner and Richard (Gilles Lellouche) grouses “no ice!” at a waitresswho brings him a glass of water. It seems to take a long minute for thewaitress to return with ice-less water. Then, put out that he can’t have eggsafter 11 a.m., he morosely orders a club sandwich and later bitches to Romy(Diane Kruger) about the number of dressings he’s offered.  (She says she like the choice.) You think: isthis the best they could do to establish the guy’s Gallic boorishness—blatherabout ice water and salad dressing? Granted, his boorishness soon becomes more blatant. Thatnight, Richard gets drunk in one of those archetypal roadside honkytonks thatall movies like this have, and chats up two blonde women. Exasperated, Romyreturns to their motel room. When Richard comes in, he tries to rape her. Shesmashes him over the head with a lamp and hits the road, sure that she’s killedhim. Thus does the road movie turn into a solo act. Romy overpaysfor an old clunker and soon ends up in Las Vegas low on cash. Taken in by asympathetic aging showgirl (Laurene Landon, in a standout supportingperformance), she gets a job wearing a bunny costume and selling photos totourists alongside two Elvis impersonators. If that conceit sounds about aslame as ice water and salad dressing, well, so it is. Advertisement Somewhere in here Romy actually says, “I just want to befree.” For a half-minute you want to believe her, and await a story thatdetails her journey toward self-determination. But then guess what happens. Ofcourse: she meets a guy. A sexy, long-haired park ranger named Diego (NormanReedus). He invites her up to his room and offers her two hundred dollars.Since she’s wearing a bunny costume, he naturally assumes she’s in business. Whenshe blushingly insists otherwise, he bluntly tells her he only sleeps withprostitutes. It avoids the burden of commitment. So Romy exchanges a boorish French lout for a hunky Americanone who’s relationship-phobic? Well, yes: that’s about the sum of it. The restof the story concerns Romy’s returning home with Diego and trying to worm herway into his life (talk about a thankless task). And this isn’t presented asany sort of examination of some womens’ penchant for making one bad romanticmistake after another. In fact, it seems we’re supposed to read Romy’s journeyas somehow worthwhile, even successful: her self-abasementisher self-realization. If that sounds politically veryretrograde, a kind of anti-feminist fable, it comes across mainly as bad screenwriting,romantic clichés imbued with a particularly French kind of cluelessness. As “Inglourious Basterds” proved, Kruger is a very skilled,charismatic actor, and here she carries the movie with some able help from thelaidback, laconic Reedus. There are also some good performances in secondaryroles fromLena Dunham,Lou Diamond Phillips,Joshua Jacksonand Q’oriankaKilcher. Even so, the movie kept reminding me ofAlbert Brooksin “Lost inAmerica” setting out to bent on “touching an Indian.” And that wasbeforeRomy actually ended up touchingone.