When wefirst meet the central character of "The Measure of a Man," he is inthe middle of a training session at a local job center—clearly not the first—and it is not going well. Onthe recommendation of his counselor, he has spent several months taking acourse in operating a construction crane, but, now that it is over, he hasdiscovered that there are hardly any openings out there for people with thatskill and the few that are will not hire anyone who does not already havepractical experience in the field. Yes, he was paid while taking the course butsince nothing will possibly come of it, it has all been a waste of time that iseven harder to take now that his unemployment benefits have dwindled to 500euros a month. All the counselor can do in response is blandly state thatperhaps it was a mistake to take that course, even though it was his office—perhaps even him specifically—whosent him out, despite presumably knowing the paucity of such jobs. As themeeting goes on and on, we feel both the man's entirely justified outrage and,more importantly, his acute sense of embarrassment and humiliation at beingplaced in such a position in the first place. When he finally leaves, we getthe sense that he will do almost anything in his power to avoid going throughthat again and this low-key but ultimately spellbinding drama illustrates justhow much he is or isn't willing to compromise his ideals in the name of amuch-needed paycheck. Advertisement The manis Thierry Taugourdeau (Vincent Lindon) and it has been a little more than ayear since he was among 700 factory workers that were abruptly laid off. Forthe time being, he has been able to utilize his savings to keep things goingfor him, his wife (Karine de Mirbeck) and their teenaged special needs son(Matthieu Schaller), but with that resource beginning to dry up and with amortgage due and college payments on the horizon, things are getting tight.Thierry has been doing everything in his power to land a job but that has sofar resulted in nothing but increasingly fruitless meetings with counsellorswho advise him on how to gussy up his resume and potential employers who stringhim along even though there is little chance that they might seriously considerhiring a 51-year-old man. (In one of the most cringe-inducing scenes in a filmfilled with them, he does a long job interview via Skype with an unseenfunctionary who starts off with bland pleasantries and mild hopefulness beforecritiquing his resume and finally admitting that there is virtually no way thathe will be picked for the position.) And yet, Thierry maintains a certain prideand unwillingness to settle for too little—at one point, he and his wifeare about to sell the mobile home they purchased in better days, but when theprospective buyer tries to exploit the situation to knock more off of theagreed-upon price, he calls the whole deal off. Then, amiracle happens and Thierry gets a job working as a security agent for amegastore—one of the guys tasked withnabbing shoplifters and taking them to the dreaded back room so that they caneither pay up or wait for the police to come. It may not be exactly the kind ofjob that he was looking for but he is good at it, and when he and a colleagueget to bust an obnoxious punk who tries to steal a phone charger—one that, to judge by his appearance, he could presumablyafford—you can feel his sense ofsatisfaction. As time goes on, however, he begins to realize that things arenot so clear-cut and that in some cases, such as an older man who gets caughttrying to steal some meat and admits that he has no money to pay for it nor anyfriends or family he can ask to help him out, he is busting people who are in asituation not unlike the one he just left in the name of the corporate mindsetthat was responsible for his own job loss. Things get even dicier when hediscovers that his job includes busting his fellow workers for their ownminor-league infractions—one keeps some coupons for herown use instead of destroying them and another puts the "loyalty"points accrued by customers who are not part of the program on her own card—and he is forced to examine how far down he is willing togo to avoid returning to those horrible meetings and interviews. At firstglance, "The Measure of a Man" may remind some viewers of "TwoDays, One Night," the extraordinary film by the Dardenne Brothers thatfollowed a recently laid off factory worker as she begged her co-workers tovoluntarily give up their bonuses in order to allow her to be rehired. However,while the film does have some superficial similarities, such as the way that itsurrounds its central performer with a cast consisting largely ofnon-professionals, director/co-writer Stephane Brize has a few curve balls instore. Utilizing a number of scenes employing long takes, he forces viewers toreally feel the discomfort and embarrassment that Thierry is enduring, both inthe early scenes when he is desperate for any kind of work and in the laterones when he realizes what he is being asked to do for his paycheck. Byswitching things up from Thierry's job hunt to his work at the store, Brizetransforms his film from a painfully acute docudrama to a morality play that isall the more effective for the ways in which it doesn't go for easy melodrama.The end result is a film that may not exactly be filled with laughs (other thana few of the extremely dark variety) but is nevertheless engrossing. Advertisement One otherarea in which "The Measure of a Man" is similar to "Two Days,One Night" is that it does for Vincent Lindon what that film did forMarion Cotillardby providing one of France's great actors with a showcase fortheir uncommon gifts. On screen for virtually every moment of the film'srunning time, Lindon, who won the Best Actor award at the Cannes Film Festivalfor his work, is nothing less than mesmerizing. Although he keeps over-emotingto a bare minimum, he is able to convey more true feelings with his hangdog expressionthan most other actors could pull off displaying the full cornucopia ofemotions. "The Measure of a Man" may be a hard film to watch at times,but with Lindon's great performance at its center, it is one from which youcannot look away.