Particularly flawed in the long shadow of FX’s brilliant “ThePeople vs OJ Simpson,”Rick Famuyiwa’s “Confirmation,” premiering on HBOtonight, has to be considered a notable disappointment. And yet it’s notovertly “bad,” per se. It’s one of those movies that’s easy to describe as “fine.”The performances are fine (and some rise above that description). Theproduction values are fine. The storytelling is fine. The direction? Fine,although you’d never know as vibrant a filmmaker as Famuyiwa was behind thecamera. The problem with all that "fine"? The story of Clarence Thomas and Anita Hilldeserves more than fine. This is a fascinating political chapter with deepissues of race, gender and power to examine, but the production of “Confirmation”is satisfied with a superficial, then-this-happened approach to storytelling.If you’re old enough to remember the uniqueness of an international story thatinvolved pubic hair on Coke cans, you really know everything “Confirmation” hasto tell you. Advertisement With opening credits that remind one of the Bork SupremeCourt nomination that failed under Reagan, “Confirmation” leads quickly intothe selection by President George H.W. Bush of Clarence Thomas (Wendell Pierce)to fill the seat vacated by Thurgood Marshall in 1991. It looks likely thatThomas will be confirmed, especially after relatively successful meetings ofthe Senate Judiciary Committee, led by Joe Biden (Greg Kinnear). As thecommittee’s staff members are further investigating Thomas’ history, RickiSeidman (Grace Gummer), an aide to Senator Edward Kennedy (Treat Williams), comesupon the story of Anita Hill (Kerry Washington), a former co-worker of Thomas,and she has a story to tell. In a rapid series of events (and I did forget how quickly it all unfolded), we were all watching testimony about Long Dong Silver and what Thomas called a "high-tech lynching" on national television. How differently did the confirmation unfold because it was about an African-American man being questioned and an African-American woman not being taken seriously in front of a panel of white men? While this should clearly be the driving artistic question of "Confirmation," it's really only casually discussed in the context of a film too quick to get out the facts instead of asking what they meant to the national conversation. Instantly, “Confirmation” plays like that particular brandof TV melodrama in which people play real-life figures who seem to have astartling amount of self-awareness about their place in history. Did Anita Hillcome forward after pressure related to the women’s rights issues on whichThomas would likely vote on the Supreme Court? It probably came up, but almostcertainly not in the “TV movie way” in which it does here. The film is weigheddown with conversations that sound stilted and awkward, as if everyone knowsthey’re in a movie. When writerSusannah Grantpauses for a character beat thatfeels spontaneous—like Thomas listening to “Onward, Christian Soldiers” beforetestifying—it stands out against a backdrop that just blurs into blandness. To be clear, I’m not even saying I disagree with the view ofthe Thomas/Hill as presented by “Confirmation,” but why recount Alan Simpson’sgrotesque promise of “real harassment, not the sexual kind” if you’re not doingit for a purpose? Why bother if you can’t find the nuance and the depth ofcharacter in this story? It almost feels like an obligation, like somethingthat has been on an HBO whiteboard for a decade and just ended up being thebest idea left. To be fair, the cast does a lot of heavy lifting for Grantand Famuyiwa. Washington deftly balances Hill’s pride with her fear over comingforward, and eventually tapping into her determination. Once she decided shehad to say something, she wouldn’t be stopped. Pierce gives a very interestingperformance in that he never undermines Thomas’ stance. There’s no shamefullook of recognition that maybe he did something wrong, creating an interestingdynamic in that both leads think they’re in the right.Jeffrey Wright, asCharles Ogletree (Hill’s lead attorney), andBill Irwinas John Danforth, Thomas’friend and loudest supporter, remind viewers how much these two talented actorscan do with very little. Ultimately, until its fascinating closing credits—which draws the linefrom the Hill testimony to white men in government being replaced by women(which finally captures the film’s tagline of “It only takes one voice tochange history”)—“Confirmation” is pure text. There’s no greater context to thestory and little subtext to what we’re watching. It is a recounting of events,which is historically important, but, as filmmaking, it’s justfine. Advertisement