“The Meddler” is a diminutive and misleading title for suchan affecting, often profound film.Susan Sarandonplays the title character,Marnie Minervini, a sixty-something mom who moves from New York to Los Angelesto be closer to her screenwriter daughter Lori (Rose Byrne), who just broke upwith her actor boyfriend (Jason Ritter). Marnie is one of those mothers whocalls her daughter five times in the space of a couple of hours, leaving amessage each time Lori doesn’t pick up, then leaves ten more messagesthroughout the day because she’s worried about not having heard back from heryet. Her daughter can’t take her relentlessness, so Marnie channels her energyinto mothering strangers and near-strangers. She encourages a helpful Applestore clerk named Freddy (Jerrod Carmichael) to go to college and even giveshim rides to and from school. When she finds out that a young lesbian mom namedJillian (Cecily Strong) can’t afford her fantasy wedding, she offers to footthe bill herself. Advertisement This description makes “The Meddler” sound like alighthearted mother-daughter bonding movie with a hint of romance for Marnie,who is courted by two divorced men,Michael McKean’s earnest, nerdy Mark andJ.K. Simmons’ divorced ex-cop Zipper, who tends chickens, rides a Harley andplays guitar. And it is all of those things. But in its heart, it’s a storyabout the lived experience of grief. Marnie is still dealing with the death ofher husband, and Lori with her father. This dear man, Joe, is seen only inphotographs, but he is the absent presence looming over both women and drivingmany of their choices. The script is filled with details so expertly observedand so rarely seen in Hollywood films that you suspect they came from experience. And they did. Writer-directorLorene Scafaria("Seeking a Friend for the End of the World")based the film on her and her mother's experience after her father died. She must have kept a detailedjournal. Every few minutes there’s an image or observation that rings true toactual grief, as opposed to movie grief, such as the way that Marnie hesitateswhile checking a box on a form because the only “marital status” optionsare married and single; or the way the soundtrack fills up withJoe’s beloved swing and 1950s doo-wop when Marnie gets lost in areverie for him; or the scene where Marnie's therapist suggests that she's burning through the money Joe left her because she feels that it's a consolation prize for losing him, and Marnie blankly denies it even though she's sitting on a couch piled high with bags from Crate and Barrel. When Marnie visits Joe’s family in New York and casually says it’s been a year since Joe died, they correcther: it’s been two. That’s what happens to your perception of timewhen you’ve lost someone close to you. Seeing it captured onscreen in such an offhand way is miraculous.This is not remotely a “downer” movie, but it’s not chirpy or coy, and it doesn’t sugarcoat anything. Scenes that might play assuperficially cuddly or heartwarming in other movies have a piercing undertonebecause of the weight that Marnie and Lori carry but rarely discuss. WhenMarnie hangs out with Zipper—a silver fox with a mustache and a baritone drawlwho politely informs her that his ride is not a motorcycle, but aHarley-Davidson—it’s not just a meet-cute that’s being delayed so that thefilm won’t be over in half an hour. Marnie is hesitating because in his own laid-back California way, Zipper reminds her of Joe, and she doesn’t know if she can love a man like that again. You can tell Zipper gets this even though he doesn't know the details, just by the way he listens to her: with patience and serenity.Advertisement These truths and others come throughstrongly in the writing and in the performances, in particular Sarandon's. Shestruggles at first with the character’s New York accent but seems to understandthe character on a deep level, right down to the way she gets stoned and seemsto “conduct” a fountain, or the way her expression unfolds in wonder and gratitude whenshe watches a scene in her daughter’s TV pilot and realizes it’s drawn fromtheir lives, and that Lori has transformed her own suffering into art andmomentarily resurrected Joe through her writing. Scafaria has made a kind, smart, special film.Like “Terms of Endearment” and the underappreciated “Once Around,” it takes place in reality anddeals with real feelings, many of them unpleasant or scary, but always withhonesty and empathy and knockabout humor. Its touch is not light, it's delicate. A lot of people are going to be surprised by howdeeply this movie understands them. In its modest way, it has much to say aboutwhat it means to move through catastrophe, one step at a time.