The Italian filmmakerMatteo Garronedoes not sit still. Hismovies have confronted an unusual variety of topics and themes, from eatingdisorders to reality television. The 2008 film that introduced him tointernational audiences, “Gomorrah,” was a remarkable adaptation of anon-fiction book, depicting ironic and harrowing tales of Italian organizedcrime with a kind of electrified realism. With his latest, “Tale ofTales,” Garrone’s assuredness gets the better of him. “Gomorrah” depicted the squalid underbelly of 20th-centuryNeapolitan culture; for this film, Garrone goes back to a 17th-Centurywriter from Naples,Giambattista Basile, the father of the fairy tale (Basilepredated and influences the Brothers Grimm). As was the custom back in the day,Basile’s stories for children were a lot gorier, grimmer, and suffused witheroticism, or fear of eroticism, than contemporary kid’s fare (at least on thesurface). Garrone’s film takes three of Basile’s stories and visualizes themwith no stinting on the nasty bits. The bloody heart of an ugly sea creature iseaten raw, an old woman in relatively wretched physical shape glues down hersagging breasts to her flank (in an attempt to make them feel younger for thesake of an oddly besotted king), a princess who is married off to an ogre has towatch helplessly as her husband slaughters any parties who attempt to come toher aid. These dismal doings, and more, take place in sun-drenched settings andare played out by performers in ornate costume. Advertisement This all should be very eye-popping, and much of it is. Whatit is not, unfortunately, is particularly involving. This is Garrone’s firstEnglish-language film, and while it’s plain that such an ornate production asthis is best financed with the English-language market in mind, the compromiseof cultural specificity also yields a gnawing banality. The movie has an internationalall-star cast that mostly conducts itself rigorously; although I must say, asmuch as I admireJohn C. Reilly, Renaissance antiquity is one period setting inwhich he does not acquit himself particularly convincingly. Reilly plays theking who hunts down the sea creature whose heart enables the Queen of Longtrellis  (Salma Hayek) toconceive a child. Unfortunately for the queen, she compelled a peasant woman totry the heart-eating method before her, and so her beloved white-haired son hasa pauper twin he’s overly attached to, which yields calculations. A king inanother land, Toby Jones' King of Highhills, has a pet flea that grows giant size; his almostliterally cretinous act of mourning for the creature once it dies leaves hisprincess daughter in the care of the aforementioned ogre. In another nearbykingdom,Vincent Cassel’s debauched monarch King of Strongcliff is entranced by a song he hearssung by a dyer. Unaware that the woman is what they used to call a crone, heimperiously woos her, and the woman and her sister are flummoxed trying toeither divert or maintain his interest. The complicating factor here is onesister’s inexplicable transformation into a youthful beauty. Garrone’s film intercuts between the three stories, and thisstructure turns out to be the most vexing of the problems of “Tale of Tales.”The structuring feels arbitrary; the film switches narratives willy-nilly, withoutresolving a particular note or even aiming to surprise, jar, switch gears. And,despite the wealth of narrative detail within the stories, they remain ... well,pretty crude. The ironies on which they resolve either fall flat, or bludgeon;the coda, which unites the players from all three stories, is weak, andresolves one of them in a half-hearted way. While Garrone, set designerDimitri Capuani, costume designerMassimo Cantini Parrini, and cinematographerPeter Suschitzkyconcoct splendid visuals that pay homage to a great traditionof the gorgeously ornate and sublimely grotesque in Western art, the movie toooften compels the viewer to ask the one question that should never occur during acinematic experience, which is “What’s the point?” As much candy as themovie encourages the eyes to gorge on, “Tale of Tales” is 135 pretty minutes ofempty calories.