The concept being referred to in the title of “Sworn Virgin,” a debut feature by Italianwriter-directorLaura Bispuri, belongs to the traditional culture of Albania,where some of the film takes place. In a rugged, impoverished world where womenare treated as chattel, some escape their hard, gender-determined fateby claiming the status of “sworn virgins” before a dozen male elders, afterwhich they don male garb and live as men. They are then allowed to carry rifles, hunt and engage inall privileged male activities, except one. They are not allowed to have sexwith either gender. This custom supposedly dates back at least a couple ofcenturies and, though now dying is out, is still practiced by some women inAlbania’s remote mountain villages. Advertisement The information given above would be a help to any viewergoing into “Sworn Virgin.” As it is, the film obliges viewers to puzzle out thenature of the sworn virgin tradition, and even at the tale’s end, it may not beclear. This can only be counted a virtue by those who count obscurity andbafflement as artistic assets. The film’s story has three strands, one present-tense andset in Italy, two set in Albania in years past. All three concern two Albaniansisters who have chosen different routes for escaping the gender-imposedhardships of their native culture. Lila (Flonja Kodheli) left Albania for Italyand a middle-class married life. When we meet her there, she has a teenage daughternamed Jonida (Emily Ferratello). Years before, her sister Hana (Alba Rohrwacher) chose tolive as a sworn virgin named Mark. When the present-tense story opens, Markcomes to Italy to visit Lila, still dressed as a man but evidently determinedto start a new life away from her native culture. As we follow her tentativeefforts to do this, the film repeatedly flashes back to the sisters’ lives inAlbania as kids and around the age of 20, before Lila departs. The first thing to note about the film’s central conceit isthat it makes “Sworn Virgin” part of a long line of movies in which an actorplaying a character who’s supposed to pass as a different gender is completelyunconvincing.Oddly enough, if that’s a failure of sorts, it’s one thatdoesn’t detract from the film’s entertainment value and actually jibes with itsthematic thrust. Whether ornotwe believe the actor as someone who successfullypasses as a male, we get to compare our impressions to those of the people thecharacter meets, and reflect on the extent to which genderisperformance, successful or not.Though its focus on blurred genders makes it part of afashionable trend in movies, the film doesn’t deliver much in the way ofdramatic power or unexpected revelation, and its recurrent time-shifting, whileintellectually apposite, further diminishes its narrative momentum. The mostwinning aspects of Bispuri’s approach involve details and subtle dramaticdevelopments, such as the evolving relationship between Mark/Hana and herniece, an Italian kid who’s never known Albania. Though the niece is at first suspicious andresentful of this odd interloper, a sort of complicity emerges betweenthem. Advertisement The tale’s most resonant setting is a public pool wherefemale competitive swimmers must maintain a very specific high-gloss look, andwhere Mark is the one visitor who can never doff his clothes. It’s in abathroom there that he meets a guy who comes on to him apparently assuming he’sa boy—a strange introduction to sex for a woman who would rather not be amale.That reality underscores the fact that “Sworn Virgin” is notthe tale of a transgender person. In fact, read from a political angle, itsimplicit endorsement of gender birth roles can seem either unexamined orretrograde, though that may be putting too much weight on its rather simplepremise. Another odd thing is that the sections in Albania (shot inthe aptly named Mountains of the Damned) don’t delve into the role of religion.Are these folks Christian, Muslim or other, and do the local clerics approve ofor ignore the sworn-virgin tradition? In most conservative rural societies likethis, religion plays a large and central role. But “Sworn Virgin” is not thefirst film to give the impression that, in current European art cinema,religion is the one subject that dare not speak its name.