If you’re a fan of Mexican film and television star OmarChaparro, I’ve got some good news and some bad news. The good is that Chaparro isstarring in his first crossover-to-Hollywood picture. The bad is that I bet itisn’t the crossover-to-Hollywood picture he was hoping for. The compact Chaparro—he could be a blockier cousin to AntonioBanderas by way ofGeorge Clooney—is here saddled to an unlikely-buddy-copmovie. Maybe you’ve heard of those. His foil is a fat teenage computer hackerin L.A. who’s gotten himself in inadvertent trouble with some very nasty drugtraffickers. He's played byJoey Morgan, which is maybe good news for fans of“Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse,” in which Morgan played … yes, the fatone. Advertisement This movie, which is what you’d call a god-awful mess,doesn’t even introduce Morgan’s character until about a half an hour in. That’show conscientiously structured it is. Instead, it begins with Chaparro’scharacter, Garza, in a kitchen playing with an adorable toddler and makingsmall talk with the toddler’s mother, his partner’s wife. She tells him hereally ought to settle down, family is everything, etc. Whereupon Garza takessaid partner out on a drug bust and, well take a wild guess. With the partnerdead, the wife and daughter are never seen again. Garza’s taken out for a drinkby his commanding officer, who chides him very mildly for not waiting forbackup. Garza eyes the fetching barmaid, and starts seeing her in slow motion.Not since David “Al” Hedison cheerfully invitedTimothy Daltonto go fishingmere days after his character, Felix Leiter, watched his own wife get eaten bya shark (which also chomped off his own leg) in “License To Kill” has a moviecharacter shucked off tragedy so casually. But wait. There’s a … well I wouldn’tsaymethodto the plot beatsconcocted by director/co-writerEnrique Begneand co-writersTed PerkinsandGabriel Ripstein(staggeringly, the son of Mexican cinema giant ArturoRipstein). The barmaid and Garza end up together, in a family way,and then she’s kidnapped by the same drug dealers who got his partner, and theU.S. feds get involved (Eric Robertsplays the head honcho). It's a big mess. It’s an even bigger mess because the movie is so haphazardly edited. Oneunderstands the effect that Begne’s aiming for—flashing forward and backward inshort order during certain scenes to highlight bits of information that aremeant to pay off in “aha!”s for theviewer—but the execution is staggeringly shoddy and stumbling. The ostensiblehumor—diarrhea jokes, amputated-finger-of-a-corpse jokes, burning-people-alivejokes—competes with plot complications thrown about willy-nilly. To makematters worse, the movie looks like it was color-corrected with the “HotPink” dial turned all the way up for the whole time. I know. There isn’t reallya “Hot Pink” dial on a color-correcting console. But you know what I’m saying. Eventually, the movie works up a weird fascination. At onepoint the viewer may be moved to ask, silently, of Chaparro’s Garza, “Yes, sure,you left the pistol with whichKevin Pollakwas trying to kill himself in thetrash can of the men’s room of this diner. But now that the eccentric bad guyshave shown up, don’t you still have that huge Magnum you stole off of the Irishconvenience store clerk with whom you had a fist fight 25 minutes ago?” And soon. (The answer was, “Yes, but he must have forgotten, as he pulls it out in alater scene.”) As the movie resolves in a truly, um, unusual plot twist, Iguess I’m glad I stayed to the end. Well, actually, no. I only stayed to the endout of professional obligation. In another set of circumstances I could havenot learned of the plot twist and had a perfectly fine remainder of my life. Advertisement