The final scenes of “Precious Cargo” include a character quotingthe immortal final line from “Casablanca” and a close-up shot of a pile of dogexcrement. Without giving too much away, let me just say one of them doesa far better job of summing up the film than the other. Forthose of you who came away from last week’s action misfire “Criminal” thinking it could have been blander, stupider and more perfunctory, "Precious Cargo" willseem like the answer to your prayers. But for everyone else, it is nothing morethan just another VOD craptacular whose only real positive aspect is its utterforgettability—you will be hard-pressed to remember anything about it even onlya few minutes after watching it, which should come as a relief to everyoneinvolved with its production. Advertisement As the film opens, treacherous thief Karen (Claire Forlani) attempts to pull off a multi-million dollarcaper that crime boss Eddie (Bruce Willis) has been planning for a while. When it goes sideways, he promises to kill her unless she makes good for thefull amount of the heist. With nowhere left to turn, she shows up on thedoorstep of Jack (Mark-Paul Gosselaar), an ex-lover and fellow criminal—albeitthe likable kind who has his own loyal crew that he trades droll bon mots withafter shooting people in the face when their deals go gunny and a sweetveterinarian girlfriend (Lydia Hull) whois unaware of his real job—with Eddie’s goons in hot pursuit. After escapingthe minions via a speedboat chase, Karen asks Jack to help her make good withEddie by pulling off the robbery of an armored car containing $30 million indiamonds, another job originally conceived by Eddie. Jack’s crew, especiallysassy sharpshooter Logan (Jenna B. Kelly), are suspicious of Karen and herpossible motives but he himself is perfectly comfortable with moving ahead,secure in the knowledge that there is no possible way that she might try topull another scam and leave him holding the bag and facing Eddie’s wrath. There is more—not much more, to be truthful—but it hardly mattersbecause based simply on the brief description I have provided, most of youreading this will have pretty much anticipated every twist and turn. For example, when I mentioned that Jack’s new girlfriend was avet, you immediately envisioned a scene in which she would be forced to treat awounded member of his gang because they could not go to a regular hospital, didn’tyou? That the film does not demonstrate a single original element is bad enoughbut co-writer/debuting directorMax Adamsdoubles down by ripping off all thewrong movies—instead of simply knocking off theQuentin Tarantinooeuvre withits mixture of bloody violence and self-consciously colorful dialogue, it seemsto be taking its inspiration from the onslaught of copycats that emerged in thewake of “Reservoir Dogs” and “Pulp Fiction” back in the day. “Precious Cargo” is the kind of film that would one day begathering dust on video store shelves if such things still existed. If anyone does see it in theaters, it will presumably be to watch Bruce Willis, who, despitehis star billing, only turns up enough to temporarily distract viewers fromrealizing that they have actually paid to see a Mark-Paul Gosselaar/ClaireForlani vehicle. As has been his wont for the last couple of years,Willis turns up in a handful of scenes that appear to have been shot in a dayor two, in which he invests as little energy as he can possibly expend andstill maintain an image on the screen. As someone who is an unabashed Willisfan from way back (one who plans to celebrate next month's 25th anniversary of theridiculously underrated “Hudson Hawk”), to see him wandering in andout of the proceedings with barely disguised disdain is highly dispiriting—atleast whenNicolas Cageappears in his junky B-movies, he usually manages tobreathe a little life into the project. During the end credits, we aretreated, for lack of a better word, to wacky behind-the-scenes bloopers inwhich the stars make all sorts of mistakes in front of the camera. Oddlyenough, Willis does not turn up in any of them, which leads to one of twoconclusions—either he was letter-perfect every time they called “action” andthere was nothing left, or all of his mistakes, starting with the decisionto appear in this thing in the first place, made it into the finished filmitself. AUTHOR’S NOTE: I would just like to point out the fact thatdespite the appearance of Mark-Paul Gosselaar in the lead role of this film, atno point in this review did I stoop to making a lame “Saved by the Bell”reference. You may thank me later. Advertisement