A lengthy, glacially-paced 2014 picture from Bulgaria andRomania, “Viktoria” is in many respects the kind of movie that will confirm theprejudices of anybody with a predisposition to dislike “art” films. Or, “slow”cinema. Or what have you. The feature debut of writer/directorMaya Vitkova,the movie opens with a sardonic montage of newsreel-ish footage from the end ofthe 1970s. The voices and images of Ronald Reagan, Margaret Thatcher, JimmyCarter, Anwar Sadat and the Ayatollah Khomeini evoke a not-too-distant past. Meanwhile, in the Bulgaria of the film’sstory, as it opens, it’s “ten years before the fall of Communism,” as a titlealerts the viewer. Boryana (Irmena Chichikova) and husband Ivan (Dimo Dimov) are a young couple, desperate toleave their dreary home country, where they share a cramped apartment withBoryana’s mother, who’s bought into the Communist line with the full vigor ofmany who lived through World War II (although not much of a reference is madeto that). Boryana’s particularly keen on skipping out to Venice, having beenenchanted by an ad in a glossy magazine (one which also, I noticed, contains ananachronistic depiction of a can of “Coca Cola Classic”). Once they do that(“two birds want to fly away,” one of their underground pals says over thephone, trying to arrange for a way out) they’ll think about having a child. Advertisement But Boryana gets pregnant well before such plans bearfruit … and gives birth to a daughter who has no umbilical cord and thus no needof a navel. Viktoria, for so the child is named, is born on a date thatqualifies her for the title of “Socialist Bulgaria’s Baby Of The Decade." The family gets a nifty new apartment, and the girl is chauffeuredto school every morning; by age nine, she’s super-pals with the actual head ofstate, and her classmates are obliged to applaud her when, at a school talentshow, she bangs out a series of atonal note-clusters on a piano. You might say, “I smell allegory,” and you might not be wrong. But Vitkova’s use ofsignificant dates and metaphoric imagery isn’t honed to any particularpoint—the movie, despite a few surface affinities, never builds to the boil ofVolker Schlondorff’s adaptation of Günter Grass’ “The Tin Drum.” Once Communismfalls, Viktoria is awakened with a phone call telling her, “It’s all over, mychild.” These circumstances force Viktoria to cohabit with herstill-resentful mother. As the girl transforms from child to post-adolescent,the film moves out of allegorical territory into a more personal realm thatbrings to mind at times Sokurov’s “Mother and Son,” this time however from anexclusively female perspective. Vitkova’s personal commitment to the materialis never absent (the two Viktorias of the film are played byDaria VitkovaandKalina Vitkova, who I presume arethe director’s daughters), but the social statement of the film and its moresubjective autobiographical aims never quite mesh into a coherent, satisfyingwhole. All the movie's performances show real commitment, although the standoutis Irmena Chichikova as Boryana, whose lean, high-cheekboned face is kind of aBeckett play unto itself.