Robert Altman's "Quintet" is a confusion inunsuccessful quest of a resolution, and the nearest Altman has ever come to acompletely inexplicable film. He has always been a filmmaker of peaks andvalleys; his great films are masterpieces, but he can also make some stinkers.But not even with little-seen films like "A Perfect Couple,""H.E.A.L.T.H.," and "Beyond Therapy" has he made a filmthat defies any attempt to explain it. "Quintet" is a fantasy set in the future, in a worldovercome by a new ice age. Continents and cities are buried by snow, and thesurviving humans trek great distances to the remaining outposts ofcivilization. And that's all very well (and stunningly well photographed),except that when they get to where they're going, they spend the rest of"Quintet" playing a deadly board game that we never figure out.Altman locates his future within a bleak futuristic "hotel" that'sinhabited by people from many different nationalities, and presided over by themysterious "St. Christopher." Christian tradition has Christopher asthe patron saint of travelers, but the travelers who arrive at this hotel havea disconcerting way of turning up skewered through their vital organs. Advertisement Themurders are dictated by Quintet, a five-sided board game that occasionallyaccommodates a sixth player. Because the game is presumably central to thefilm, and because everyone in the film seems to consider it a gravely importantcompetition, I found myself actually leaning forward in my seat, straining tosee how it was played and what the rules were. I failed. Ifailed, too, to find any great interest in the relationships among thecharacters.Paul Newmanstars, as a trapper who walks in out of the cold andfinds himself swept up in the intrigues of the hotel. Other people, especiallyBibi Andersson,Vittorio GassmanandNina Van Pallandt, plot and gossip againsteach other. And the action is punctuated by dead bodies suddenly discovered, byobscure moral points made with great intensity, by things that would be symbolsif we knew what they symbolized. Altmanhas been obscure before, especially in "Images"" (1972), a filmthat seems baffling on first viewing but eventually reveals great subtlety andrichness. With "Quintet," though, I'm not even sure he's being willfullyobscure. Stories about the history of the film seem to suggest that"Quintet" is one that got away. Oneof the film's stars,Fernando Rey, said in a recent interview that Altmanscrutinized the rushes every day, attempting to discover where his actors were"leading" him. Were they leading him—or really waiting fordirections? In an interview in Variety, 20th Century-Fox boss Alan Ladd, Jr.alludes to "problems" with the production and hints that Altmandidn't have final say on the finished film. It'spossible, then, that "Quintet" doesn't represent a finished, or atleast a successful, version of the ideas Altman started out with. I can'treally say. I can say, though, that I miss the good humor, the human warmth,that occupies such recent Altman films as "Nashville," "AWedding" and even parts of "3 Women." AndI miss the ongoing sense of a human community that fills so many of his films.The people in "Quintet" are cut off—from each other, from theirsociety, from the game of Quintet, and, ultimately, from a unifying vision thatwould have carried the film. "Quintet" is a puzzlement, and not avery interesting one. Advertisement