There’s a great satire to be made about our moderninteraction with journalists, and how gullible the American people can be whenit comes to how reporters shape stories to their own benefit. “SpecialCorrespondents” is not that movie. Honestly, I’m not sure what movie it is. Thereare times when it feels like a throwback to ’80s buddy comedies and times whenone can see the teeth that it should have, before they were sanded down, lost all edge and made completely ineffectual. “Special Correspondents” is one ofthose increasingly depressing affairs, like watching air come out of a balloon.You start to feel bad for everyone involved, even the man responsible for itall,Ricky Gervais. Advertisement The talented star of “The Office” and “Extras” writes,directs, and co-stars as Ian Finch, a radio news sound guy who findshimself often partnered with the suave lead reporter Frank Bonneville (EricBana), established as a bullshit artist in the first scene when he sneaks his waypast crime scene tape. Bonneville is the kind of partBurt Reynoldswould haveplayed in the ‘70s orNick Noltein the ‘80s—someone for whom swagger andconfidence are their greatest assets. He talks down to colleague Claire Maddox(Kelly Macdonald) and generally ignores his boss Geoffrey Mallard (KevinPollak). When Bonneville hears of an uprising in Quito, Ecuador, he convincesthe powers that be to send him and Finch to the scene to report on the actionfirst-hand. On the way to the airport, Finch accidentally throws awaythe paperwork needed to board the plane, including their passports. In a momentof panic, at a local Spanish restaurant that Finch likes (where poor AmericaFerrera is stuck doing a sweet-but-dumb cliché), they come up with a ridiculousplan. They don’t need to actuallybeinQuito to pretend to report from Quito. In the room above the restaurant, Finchdesigns a predictable soundscape of “foreign war-torn country” and Bonnevillecalls in with reports. It’s all relatively plain enough until Finch realizesthat the real activity in Quito is going to demand that the pair show up at theU.S. Embassy in the city, and, well, they’re still in Queens. So they pretend to be kidnapped, turning into international celebrities in the process. Finch’shorrible wife Eleanor (Vera Farmiga) loves the spotlight, becoming a quasi-starwith her fake tears and requests for ransom money for kidnappers that don’texist. She doesn’t bother to tell anyone she slept with Bonneville the nightbefore the whole escapade began. How much modern reporting do we take on face value? “TheDaily Show” used to have a blast pretending that correspondents were inlocations that they clearly were not, with purposefully fake stock picturesbehind them. It’s a clever joke that plays on our suspicions that what we’reshown by the media industry may not be 100% accurate. As such, there’s tons ofroom for satire and commentary in the concept of “Special Correspondents.” Theproblem? This movie never once feels like it takes place in the real world, and fails to address real-life issues andconcerns, by either exaggerating them or commenting on them. After the completely implausible kidnapping plotkicks in, the movie sputters as its two leads sit on a couch for anunbelievable amount of time, watching the world respond to their plight. Theylook as bored as you’ll be watching it on Netflix. Advertisement What happened here? I think Gervais came up with an idea,convinced some talented people to jump on board, and then never figured out howto expand it into anything interesting. Gervais is at his best as a writer whenhe focuses on character, whether the title character of his Netflix show "Derek," David Brent from "The Office," or even the ones in “The Invention of Lying,” a high-concept film that worked best when it stuck to relatable people. There’s nothingresembling a character in “Special Correspondents.” Kelly Macdonald is given solittle to do that one starts to see her mind wander. Only Farmiga seems to behaving any fun at all, going broad as the one who seems to actually be enjoyingthe spotlight provided by her husband’s kidnapping. Something’s finallyhappening to her, and she’s embracing the moment. There’s an interesting moviein the concept of a woman made famous and happy by tragedy. There I go again,thinking about the movies that “Special Correspondents” could have been. It’swhat happens when a movie gives you so little to contemplate on its own.