North American moviegoers don’t get to see contemporaryHavana on screen all that much, and the views of that city and some corners ofits culture are among the best reasons to check out “Viva.” The movie wasconceived, written, shot and produced by a team of Irish filmmakers, and whileits routinely sentimental story line could read as a European import, theperformances and the depicted milieus feel distinct and right. The movie opens with Jesus (Héctor Medina), a thin anddelicately-featured young man, styling the hair of an old woman. His apartmentis run-down but sturdy, with a small balcony; the presence of Jesus’ busybodyclient and his sassy female pal Cecilia (Laura Alemán) give it a cozy feel inspite of its grubbiness. In this teeming slum, money’s too tight to mention, asis space. After Jesus is done with the old lady’s hair, she partially stiffshim on the fee, and Cecilia inveigles Jesus into letting her use his apartmentfor a hookup session with her boyfriend Javier (Oscar Ibarra Napoles), an up-and-coming boxer. Jesuswanders the street, considering his options. Before arriving at the drag clubwhere he tends the wigs of the ruler of its roost, aptly named “Mama” (LuisAlberto García), Jesus wanders past a park where male prostitutes solicit(mostly) tourists. Advertisement Jesus would prefer to perform, although he’s got noexperience in drag. He picks an outfit, gives himself a performingname ("Viva"), and brings some vintage Cuban vinyl to spin for his audition. For histroubles, he gets called “Godzilla” by the other drag performers, none of whom,truth to tell, are within swinging distance of “passing.” No matter. Mamaintuits the choices Jesus is facing and gives him a slot. One evening, a burly,bearded drunk to whom Viva is directing her romantic lip-syncing punches herin the mouth. Jesus’father Angel (longtime Cuban starJorge Perugorría) is a one-time boxer who had been serving a prison sentence forkilling a man in a brawl almost 20 years before. He is also a big homophobe. So there’s the centralconflict, and if you’re thinking that the rest of the film concerns itself withthe way these two find understanding and reconciliation, well,dingding dingas the sound effect on some game shows goes. Neither character talks all that much, but both actors projectcomplex intelligence and consistent emotional acuity. As Angel, Perugorría brings a strong, downtrodden machismo vibe, with intimations ofAldo Rayand/orRussell Crowegone to seed; Medina’s Jesus is also vivid. They, and other castmembers, make the movie more moving than it might otherwise have a right to be.While directorPaddy Breathnachshoots in a widescreen format without oftenhaving much of an idea what to do with it (and goes wobbly-handheld far toooften, possibly in thrall to the fallacy that shaky camerawork enhancesrealism), every now and then he hits on a composition that yields a powerfuldepiction of Havana. The old cars, therecord stores stocked with old LPs, the corner drag club providing a den ofcheerful and proscribed iniquity in plain sight—the atmosphere carries a weirdlyintoxicating quality in spite of its privation. The lifting of the U.S. embargoon trade with Cuba will, no doubt, bring more 100-percent Cuban cinema into theview of U.S. moviegoers. But it shall also, no doubt, change Havana itself. Thecity seen in “Viva” may be disappearing even as I write these words.