There’s something I’ve noticed in a couple indie pictureslately, and I’m wondering if it’s a trick that competent editors suggest togive a little oomph to movies. I’ll call it The UnnecessaryIn Medias Res. The movie will open on ascene of relative zippiness or suspense, ending on what’s meantto be a suggestive indeterminate note. Then a title will come on screen: “24Hours Before,” “Two Weeks Ago,” “Three Months Ago,” or some such thing. Thefilm will then go on, telling its narrative, and eventually it will catch upwith the scene that began it. Whatwill follow will make sense not just in the context of the larger plot butsatisfy the viewer as to why the scene was put at the beginning of the movie,out of sequence, in the first place. BUT, in less accomplished movies, theviewer is left asking, why’d all this have to be in flashback? Advertisement This year I saw the device used with almost comicblatancy in the worthless thriller “Misconduct.” And it pops up again here in "The Family Fang," andproves completely unnecessary. The movie opens with a sequence made to look asif it was shot on video tape, a documentary of a little kid holding up a bankin the 1970s. There’s a twist, and it has to do with the very nature of thefamily cited in the title, and that twist is the first and really onlyeffective bit of manipulation in the entire film. The “archive” footage wouldhave made a pretty compelling opening to the movie in and of itself. Instead,the movie then cuts to a depressed-lookingNicole Kidmanin a dark roomwatching the footage on television, popping out the cassette, and leaving theroom, as the camera pans to a corkboard festooned with maps and news articlesabout the disappearance of a pair of once-prominent conceptual and performanceartists. And then … flashback time. Directed by co-starJason Bateman, from a script by DavidLindsay-Abaire, based on a novel byKevin Wilson, “The Family Fang” is largelynoteworthy for the specific place it locates generational resentment. Batemanand Kidman play siblings, advanced adults no longer living up to their earlypromise. Once a Guy-In-Your-MFA tyro novelist, Bateman’s Baxter is now yearspast the deadline for his next book. Kidman’s Annie, an actress, has drunk herway out of a recurring role in a lucrative superhero franchise and is reducedto being wheedled into nude scenes by abusive directors of lame indies. Whereis the locus of their dysfunction? Of course, in the larger family unit: theirparents, Caleb and Camille, performance/conceptual artists of the ‘60s and ‘70swho forced their kids—whom Caleb initially referred to merely as “Child A” and “ChildB”—to participate in stunt-like pieces. Many of which are recreated in furtherflashbacks. There’s an interesting reactionary quality in the way themovie makes conceptual art its straw man, standing in for IrresponsibleParenting By The Counterculture. I don’t know if the Revenge Of Gen X And Or Ysubtext was very strong in Wilson’s novel (I can hazard a guess though, thatwhen he was writing it, he probably envisionedWes Andersonas the Dream Director for the film adaptation), but here it flounders just like every otheraspect of the movie, including the “what really happened” plot thread of Caleband Camille’s disappearance shortly after they rudely reintroduce themselvesinto their children’s lives. Advertisement Whilethe cast keeps its head down and reaches for genuine emotion, the movieeventually manages to sentimentalize even what it sees as its owntough-mindedness. The major exception, and the reason I’m rating this moviehigher than I would otherwise, isChristopher Walken. His commitment to making Caleb as thoroughlyunlikable as humanly possible yields a character who’s kind of terrifyinglyoff-putting even when his words and actions are ineffectual. A piece of actingalchemy of which only few are capable. I can’t imagine how powerful it mighthave been in a better movie.