“Keanu” is a pure pop confection that delights even as itproves to be wildly uneven. This big screen debut of comedic powerhousesKeegan-Michael Key andJordan Peeleas leading men highlights many of theirgreatest strengths, as they bounce between personas, voices, and different physicalitywith ease. The premise gives them the opportunity to play uptight and loose,milquetoast black men and outlandish thug stereotypes sometimes in the samescene. Theirstriking differences and chemistry as comedians give the film its raggedenergy. But "Keanu," directed byPeter Atencio, only provides you exactly what you expect and nothing more. Inmany ways, it plays like a less subversive sketch from the duos magnificent,defunct show “Key and Peele," been ballooned to 98 minutes—the film’s greatest problem. Advertisement Rell (Jordan Peele) fills his empty days after a breakup withexcessive weed smoking and morose lounging on his couch, surrounded by postersof films like “Heat” and “New Jack City.” When a kitten finds its way to hisdoorstep after escaping a crazed shootout at a drug running facility, Rell’slife finds purpose again. Soon, Rell’s grief gives way to a near-obsession with Keanu, as observed by his cousin Clarence (Keegan-Michael Key). When Keanu iskidnapped by powerful drug kingpin Cheddar (Method Man), the duo adopt theidentities of the mysterious Allentown assassins they’re mistaken forin order to get close enough to get Keanu back. “Keanu” essentially plays with the same few jokes over andover. Some of them work, like the sheer ridiculousness of every man that comesin contact with Keanu falling in love with him, the calendar that Rell shootsof Keanu reenacting various iconic films or watching Keanu bounce betweenmoments of excessive brutality unscathed. Others, like the continualreferencing of George Michael, are run into the ground. What proves to beinfuriating about the film are the more fascinating avenues it chooses not totake. For example, Rell's weed dealer, Hulka (Will Forte) is a less bombastic, unrefined version of rapper Riff Raff. The various ways he adopts black culture, stylistically and verbally, are milked for maximum amount of humor while sidestepping the uncomfortable politics inherent in doing so. One of the best aspects of “Key and Peele” was the show’sability to produce full body laughter while grappling with the uncomfortableideas of black identity in American culture. “Keanu” flirts with these ideasvery briefly. The act of code switching is something every black personexperiences on some level. The dramatic divide between how we speak when we’reat work, for example, versus the communal language of Ebonics (or African-AmericanVernacular English, depending on the circles you run in) around other blackpeople is touched on. Clarence’s discomfort with taking on that guise to get Keanu back gives thefilm one of its few moments when it addresses the racial politics inherent inthe masquerade. There’s also avery fascinating scene involving Clarence somehow able to convince Cheddar’sgroup of criminals of the merit of George Michael, which leads to them bonding more profoundly than expected. Under the surface of seeingthese hardened drug dealers sing along to George Michael are questions aboutthe nature of the emotional walls black men sometimes put up because of aculture that demands them to. This nods to a thematic vein dealing with theexpectations of black masculinity and vulnerability, even if the script writtenby Peele andAlex Rubensdoesn’t tap into it enough. Advertisement “Keanu” gets the braggadocio about the act the duo puts on,but the humor has a sort of weightlessness because there isn’t much thoughtbehind it. Rell and Clarence may be more down-to-earth than the criminals theyface, but they’re just as dishonest with themselves about their own emotionallandscapes. That this fact isn’t grappled with all that much is an incrediblefailing of the film. The emotional aspects of thenarrative are dropped in favor of displaying another visually bold, slow motionaction sequence or reflecting on Keanu’s cuteness.We don’t see enough of Clarence and Rell’s personal lives for the film’s conclusion to work beyond being simply funny.Atencio's film also fails its most important female characters. Clarence’s relationship with his family, particularly hiswife, Hannah (Nia Long), isn’t explored well enough for the ending of the filmto feel earned. As Hannah, Long is warm, funny, and has great chemistry withKey when the filmmakers remember she exists. Cheddar’s second-in-command, Hi-C(Tiffany Haddish) is given more to do. Whenever she’s on-screen the film lightsup. She authentically plays tough, street smart, and a brand of sexiness thatis rooted in her own swagger more than any sort of rote objectification. Butlike Nia Long, Haddish isn’t woven through the film properly enough for the lastminute twist and her budding relationship with Rell to completely work. And acameo by     Anna Faris    , playing a doped-up,aggressive version of herself, runs far too long.As Clarence and Rell’s masquerade unravels, so does the film,even if its core remains so sweet and tender it’s hard not to love. There isstill a lot of worthwhile humor and even a few good scenes in the last half,but the messy structure works against its potential greatness. At key points, thefilm seems to actually be referencing another Keanu in theKeanu Reevesfilm,“John Wick.” “Keanu” could use some of the clever world building and strongemotional core that elevates “John Wick” beyond just being an impressivelychoreographed and shot action flick. Without these qualities, “Keanu” is fun,and even sometimes outright hilarious, but it doesn’t live up to the skills ofits central performers. Advertisement