Do you like films that are so wildly overstuffed with charactersand subplots that the finale requires a child’s life-threatening asthma attack,a karaoke-related injury and a recalcitrant vending machine to bring twocharacters together at last? Are you okay with movies that feature characterswho are unabashedly racist, so long as they are wacky racists? Have you lain awake late at night wondering whatJulia Robertsmight look likeif she happened to be sporting Moe Howard’s hairdo? If so, then “Mother’s Day”may just be the movie for you. If not, you should give the widest berthpossible to this staggeringly incompetent blend of silliness and schmaltz—afilm so awful that if one were to put up a list of the great films celebratingmotherhood, it would rank considerably lower than the Gusvan Sant version of “Psycho.” Advertisement This is the third film in a row from directorGarry Marshalltocombine a beloved holiday, multiple storylines, and casts combining largechunks of the current SAG roster, into something resembling a cross between “TheCannonball Run” and an entire season of “Love, American Style.” I must admit tosort of liking the first one, “Valentine’s Day” (2010), if only because I foundit impossible to resist any film that included the likes ofJessica Alba, AnneHathaway,Shirley MacLaineandTaylor Swift. “New Year’s Eve”(2011), on the other hand, was as ghastly and bloated as the day itcommemorated and featured an even larger cast of notables (including Robert DeNiro,Michelle Pfeiffer,Hilary Swank,Katherine Heigland JonBon Jovi) makingfools of themselves. By comparison, “Mother’s Day” dials down the star factorsomewhat—a mistake since without the “Hey, isn’t that ... ?” factor to serve as a distraction, itleaves viewers with more time to concentrate on the script. This is not thekind of film where you want to be doing that too much. This time around, the characters include Sandy (JenniferAniston), whose picture-perfect divorce is threatened when her former husband(Timothy Olyphant) unexpectedly marries his much-younger girlfriend Tina (ShayMitchell) and tries to include her in the lives of their two young sons. She isfriends with Jessie (Kate Hudson) and Gabi (Sarah Chalke), who have both movedfar away from their trailer trash parents (Margo Martindaleand Robert Pine)and are both keeping secrets from them—Jessie is married to an Indian man named Russell (Aasif Mandvi) and has a son with him (named Tanner, yuk yuk yuk) and Gabi ismarried to a woman (Cameron Esposito) and has a son with her as well. Bradley(Jason Sudeikis) is the hapless father to two daughters who is still reelingfrom the death of his wife nearly a year earlier. Meanwhile, Kristin (BrittRobertson) is a young mother who doesn’t want to marry her long-time boyfriend(Jack Whitehall), not because he is a bad stand-up comedian but because she hasabandonment issues stemming from having been adopted. Finally, Miranda (JuliaRoberts) is a host of a home shopping show who has no family to speak ofbecause of her career goals, so there is obviously no way that she could beconnected with any of the previously mentioned characters, so put that thoughtout of your mind right now. In the past, it has been suggested that Garry Marshall does notmake film for the supposedly refined palates of critics—he specializes in broadentertainment for mass audiences who are not necessarily in the mood forsubtlety and introspection. This is not necessarily true—besides “Valentine’sDay,” I have enjoyed several of his past films. However, when he goes wrong, hecan go spectacularly wrong (as anyone who sat through the inexplicable “Exit toEden” and “The Other Sister” can attest) and “Mother’s Day” is as wrong asanything that he has ever done. He and the four screenwriters (three of themnewcomers and the other the scribe of the deathless “Monster-in-Law”) have puttheir heads together to concoct a script that juggles far too many characters and plot lines. They neglect to include any moments of genuine insight about motherhood, or much of anything else for that matter. Advertisement Instead, we get the usual hacky jokes (ranging from the Sudeikischaracter being embarrassed when the tampons he is buying for his daughterrequire a price check, to a fat guy nicknamed Tiny) andequally contrived heart-to-heart moments so sitcom-y that you'll be unconsciously reaching for the remote. These jokes are occasionally interrupted bybits so insane that you cannot imagine what the writers were thinking when they were added to the script. In one, we see the lesbian couple showing off afloat featuring a giant uterus they built for the upcoming Mother’sDay parade—as it turns out, there is no parade and the whole thing has justbeen an elaborate setup for a one-liner for a traffic cop played by LarryMiller. (It is the funniest bit, but still a bit of a reach.) In another, thestand-up comic is in a competition but his girlfriend is nowhere to be found andas a result, he has to take their baby on stage with him for his routine—eventhough he doesn’t actually tell a recognizable joke, he still somehow wins. Why would so many good actors sign up for a script this dopey? Myguess is that they look upon these things as the equivalent of parties wherethey can make an appearance, have some fun without doing much in the way of heavylifting and get paid a lot of money in the process. Trust me, they would havebeen better served if Marshall had just forgone the film entirely and filmedthe cast party. None of the actors are able to find a way to rise above thematerial, instead just plowing through in the broadest manner possible whiletrying not to look too obviously embarrassed. This weekend happens to see the wide release of two films that dealwith motherhood. One is “The Meddler,” the charming movie fromLorene Scafaria, about a recent widow who moves to L.A. to be closer toher daughter and to start a new life for herself. “Mother’s Day” is the otherone. The former has a few uneven moments here and there, but it is a generallycharming and touching film that featuresSusan Sarandon’s best performance inyears; it deserves to be seen. The latter is a galling waste for practically everyone involved with it. If you even think about optingfor “Mother’s Day” over “The Meddler”—or practically anything else currentlyplaying at the multiplex—then clearly your mother did not raise you right. Advertisement