First, the bad news. “Term Life,” despite what you mightexpect from its laughable poster and no-critics-screening VOD release, isn’t “fun bad.”If you’re looking for the next “The Room,” or even something akin to some ofNicolas Cage’s more YouTube-ready over-the-top performances, you’ll have tolook elsewhere. No, “Term Life” is just a run-of-the-mill, poorly madethriller that doesn’t thrill. It’s a wannabe noir with no atmosphere, and a wasteof a talented cast by a director who really has no idea what to do with them.Great actors wander in and out of a scene, some of them get shot, some justdisappear, and the move trudges onward. At least it pauses briefly to addressVince Vaughn’s ridiculous haircut. Advertisement Vaughn stars as Nick Barrow, a man who literally introduces himselfvia narration with the line “I plan heists.” (The narration is the onlylaughably fun part of the movie with insanely on-the-nose bon mots like “Beinginterrogated by a cartel leader is not how I expected my day to start out.”)Nick is to illegal activity as a wedding planner is to nuptials—he designs the event and then gets a cut when it succeeds. His latest plan goes awry when the perpetratorsare gunned down after pulling it off. It turns out that Nick’s latest customerwas the son of a notorious cartel leader (Jordi Molla). If you’re thinking thata movie about a drug dealer getting vengeance for his son’s murder would beenough, you’re ahead of “Term Life.” It ALSO turns out that the robberyaggravated a dirty cop named Keenan (Bill Paxton) and his crew (including MikeEpps and Shea Wigham) are the ones who actually killed the drug lord’s kid toget back what he stole. Still not enough movie for you? OK, let’s graft on afather-daughter plot. When Nick realizes that a notorious criminal mastermindand a team of dirty cops are after him, he does what any estranged father woulddo—he buys life insurance (hence the film’s name). But, as he’s told by theinsurance agent (a fascinatingly underusedTaraji P. Henson, who sells thepolicy and disappears), he has to survive three weeks for the blood work to gothrough, or else his daughter Cate (Hailee Steinfeld) won’t get anything whenhe’s iced. So, Nick and Cate go on the run, provoking the suspicions of a smalltown cop played by another actor too good for the size of his role (Terrence Howard).I didn’t even mention the fact that Cate’s mother is a recovering alcoholic. It’sall so much movie and yet so little at the same time. The every-cliché-and-the-kitchen-sink approach of “Term Life”leads to a crushingly bland affair. It’s kind of like how every color blendsto gray eventually. Nothing in “Term Life” is developed enough in its 93-minuterun time to give it any weight. Paxton’s villainous cop deserved a better movie(there’s a scene in the middle between him and Wigham that is a perfect exampleof a point where the film could have become something else but went back to themiddle of the road), as does the greatJonathan Banks’ buddy and evenJon Favreau’scriminal lackey. Most of all, the talented Steinfeld gives “Term Life” way morethan the film deserves, playing the anger of a young woman ignored by herfather her entire life. Sadly, Billingsley doesn’t know what to do with herperformance, too often pushing it back to cliché. What do teen girls do? Go swimsuit shopping! (For the record, this is where I would have checked out were it not my professional obligation to continue.) Advertisement Ultimately, there’s no sense of danger or world creationhere. These people don’t exist in the real world, and Billingsley has no ideahow to make it feel like they do. It’s one of those films that thinks castingequates to audience concern. Why do we care about what happens to Nick andKate? Because their faces are on the poster. And it absolutely fails as anaction film. Billingsley, the director of “Couples Retreat,” does not have any clue what to do with stunt work or shoot-out choreography. There’s onescene in which Nick is supposed to throw a guy out a window and the stunt manbasically just runs for the glass, while Vaughn pats him on the back on the wayby. It’s the one time I laughed.