Based on the video game franchise of the same name, "Ratchet & Clank"makes a concerted effort to undermine and joke about the common, genericelements of its story and its characters. It's filled with establishingsubtitles, naming some alien planet and then subtitling the subtitle with, say,a countdown to the dastardly villain's inevitable speech that will lay out thedetails for his wicked plan. We get a training montage, ofcourse, but it's preceded by a sub-subtitle informing us that one is on theway. During that scene, the unlikely hero gets a chance to test out all of hisnifty, new weapons. Eventually, the leader of the team runs out ofneat-sounding names for all the cool weaponry, and he's reduced to calling oneof them, which fires a sawblade, something along the lines of the "killerbuzzing thingy." Advertisement The movie's attitude is commendable.It's actually trying to have fun with material that should be fun, and it'salso actively making fun of the pieces that are worthy of mockery. It's asinnocent in its approach to all of this as a movie that features thedestruction of several planets can be, too. The effort is often obvious, andthat means a good number of the jokes are funnier on a theoretical level thanthey are on a practical one. That's one issue. The other major one is that thehumor only goes so far. At some point, the movie has to rely on the things atwhich it previously poked fun. Our improbable hero is Ratchet(voiced byJames Arnold Taylor), one of the last of his species—a Lombax, whichlooks mostly like a cat. He works as a mechanic in a desert valley of a planetcalled Veldin. The movie's bold color palette is striking, and it possesses anadmirable level of detail in creating a series of disparate worlds—from thevillain's stark headquarters on a mountainous planet to a bustling metropolisthat serves as the backdrop for the movie's first action sequence. Ratchet dreams of one day becoming amember of the Galactic Rangers, an elite quartet of warriors, led by theegotistically dunderheaded Captain Qwark (voice ofJim Ward), who defend thegalaxy from evil. After a disastrous joyride in a souped-up flying car, Ratchet'sboss/adoptive father Grim (voice ofJohn Goodman), a purplish blob of acreature with dangling ears and tusks, warns the Lombax that he needs to lowerhis expectations for what he can get out of life. The villain of the tale is Drek(voice ofPaul Giamatti), an industry titan with a pear-shaped head and flattophaircut who rides around on a hovering cart. His plan is to annihilate a seriesof planets, take the best sections of the ruins, and piece them together intothe utopia of his dreams. In the meantime, he has to worry about the fact thathis henchmen are more concerned with their cellphones than they are with hisorders. Drek's right-hand robot is VictorVon Ion (voice ofSylvester Stallone), who longs to see real battle, and hismad-scientist partner-in-crime is Dr. Nefarious (voice ofArmin Shimerman), whosees himself as more "vengeful" than "mad." Ratchet'seventual, pintsized sidekick Clank (voice ofDavid Kaye) is a defective modelin Drek's army of robots. The cute little guy with a matter-of-fact way withwords and statistical probabilities of failure escapes the assembly line. Clankmakes an emergency landing on Veldin, where Ratchet learns of Drek's evil planand is determined to stop the bad guy—hoping to become a member of the GalacticRangers in the process. Advertisement There's a constant sense of competinggoals in the screenplay by T.J. Fixman (a regular writer for the game's seriesof sequels),Gerry Swallow, and directorKevin Munroe(Jericca Clelandservedas the movie's co-director). It maintains a fairly consistent sense of humor,especially as Ratchet becomes an instant celebrity, pushing the insecure Qwarkout of his accustomed spotlight, and begins his Ranger training. Once the plotmoves past this section, though, it essentially falls into the trap offollowing an established pattern. There are land battles, dogfights among thestars, betrayals, and the usual stuff of space operas. The joking becomes secondary to theneed to hit the very elements of plot and character that the movie tries sohard to undercut. In terms of character, Qwark's oblivious hero-in-his-own-mind, Clank's trustysidekick, and Drek's quirky scoundrel are highlights. The rest of the GalacticRangers (voiced byRosario Dawson,Bella Thorne, and Dean Redman) feel likeafterthoughts in search of personalities beyond the soldiers' constant need toshoot something. Ratchet is perhaps most notable as a hero for the plasma-beamgrappling hook he possesses. There's a fair amount to appreciateabout "Ratchet & Clank," especially its desire to send up thegenre conventions at play here. It's a shame, then, that the movie ultimatelyfinds itself becoming so conventional.