Simultaneously lush andlurid, sumptuous and startling, “A Bigger Splash” never goes where you expect,even as its undercurrent of danger is unmistakable from the start. With the follow-up tohis landmark 2009 drama “I Am Love,” directorLuca Guadagninoonce againreveals himself to be a master craftsman. He draws four beautiful andwell-balanced performances from his excellent cast, including brash, grandiosework fromRalph Fiennes. What Fiennes does here feels like jazz itself: It’sphysical and primal, jumpy and funny in equal measure, and he manages to makean annoying, demanding character thoroughly entertaining. Advertisement At the other end of thespectrum is a fascinating, wordless performance fromTilda Swinton, theexquisite star of “I Am Love.” She croaks out a whisper here and there (andeven a silent orgasm, standing up) which only adds to her perpetuallymysterious air. She does so much with those clear, blue eyes, that statuesquepresence and the confidence she exudes no matter what she’s wearing (or evenwhen she’s wearing nothing at all, which frequently is the case for all thefilm’s stars). Rounding out thefoursome areMatthias Schoenaertsas Swinton’s hunky, younger lover and DakotaJohnson as the slinky, seductive daughter Fiennes’ character only recentlyrealized he had. Their lengthy backstories and newfound alliances revealthemselves over the course of a seemingly idyllic vacation at a picturesquevilla on the Italian island of Pantelleria, where the threat of a siroccostirring things up even further is constant. Cinematographer YorickLe Saux (who also shot Guadagnino’s gorgeous “I Am Love”) luxuriates in themall as they bask and tangle in the sun and in and out of a swimming pool thatwill become increasingly crucial as the film progresses. (“A Bigger Splash” isa loose remake of the 1969 Jacques Deray film “La piscine.”) Schoenaerts’ pecs,Johnson’s torso, Fiennes’ smile and even Swinton’s feet are all monuments to beworshipped as much as the cool, blue Mediterranean Sea or the imposing volcanicboulders that surround it. Swinton stars asMarianne Lane, a Bowie-esque rock star whom we first glimpse in metallicsequins and face paint, taking the stage to the deafening chants of an adoringstadium crowd. But soon, it’s clear that she’s forcing herself not to speakmuch less sing; she and Schoenaerts’ Paul, a photographer and documentarian,have retreated to this remote paradise to allow Marianne to rest and recoverher voice. Guadagnino, working froma script byDavid Kajganich, efficiently and vividly establishes the bohemianyet domesticated life Marianne and Paul have created for themselves, full ofnude sunbathing, midday lovemaking and long soaks in the nearby mud baths. Advertisement The noisy, unexpectedarrival of Fiennes’ Harry, Marianne’s longtime friend and record producer,interrupts their reverie. Turns out Harry not only was Marianne’s lover for sixyears, he’s also the man who introduced her to Paul (and gave them his blessing tolaunch into their own romance—a decision he now regrets). Harry has shown upwith the blonde, leggy Penelope (Johnson), who alternates between makinginsults and inappropriate come-ons. She insists she’s 22 although her impetuousnesssuggests otherwise, and “A Bigger Splash” allows Johnson to be both funnier andsexier than she was in “Fifty Shades of Grey.” Tensions mount as thedays pass, the wind blows harder and dustier and the villa seems to growsmaller and more suffocating. Harry breaks through all that, though—orperhaps he’s just oblivious by inviting random friends over, regaling them withtales of his rock-music glory days, playing Rolling Stones records and showingoff his moves like Jagger. This sequence may actually be the highlight in amovie filled with strong and striking visuals: the sight of Fiennes in anunbuttoned shirt and swim trunks joyously letting “Emotional Rescue” radiatefrom every fiber in his being. He’s never been so much fun to watch—not evenwhen he got to vamp it up as Voldemort. Guadagnino ratchets upthe feeling of claustrophobia with extreme close-ups that ignite the senses:hands gutting a fish or peeling fruit, eyes as they survey the othercharacters, a mouth moving with non-stop chatter and laughter. Mariannecould easily be a contemporary rock-star—Swinton is a timeless and toweringfigure, after all—but Guadagnino’s use of zooms and pans suggests an homageto European psychological dramas like the film’s source material. He’s createda concoction that’s sexy and strange all at once. Advertisement But then “A BiggerSplash” goes slack and silly toward the end, just as it should be at its mostgripping. A ghastly discovery almost seems like it’s being played for laughs.In fact, because the film is so precise for long in both its beauty and itsweirdness, the tonal shift toward uncomfortable farce feels that much moredisappointing. Guadagnino also tries to drop in hints about the plight ofTunisian refugees arriving on the island seeking sanctuarybut they never really resonate or cohere with the story as a whole. “A Bigger Splash” mightbe intended as a cautionary tale about the perils of being white, beautiful andprivileged—but it’ll probably register more as a dazzling escape.