“Bite” is a low-budget body horror film complete withwarnings about having better friends and not marrying men you don’t reallylove. It’s got echoes of “The Fly” (and, more recently, “Contracted”) embedded ina story about a young woman scared of her future, until she doesn’t really haveone anymore. At its best, and it gets pretty good after a really rocky start, “Bite”is a clever gorefest with some creative twists and turns. It’s one of thoseearly career horror entries in which the filmmakers don’t quite nail the set-upor the landing, but the gooey center of the film works for those with a hightolerance for things that might make a majority of the population queasy. Advertisement Bride-to-be Casey (Elma Begovic) and her two friends Kirsten(Denise Yuen) and Jill (Annette Wozniak) are on a bachelorette party trip asthe film opens. Using found footage style, we see the girls on the beach, atclubs, in their rooms, etc. Clearly, Kirsten is the nicer of the two friends, whileJill is a bit catty, and eager to film awkward, possibly even scandalousmoments. Right from the beginning, “Bite” is drawn from the “cautionary” genreof horror films that teach us that if we would just never leave the safety of ourcouches, everything would be OK. And if you’re gonna be crazy enough to go allthe way out of the country for a bachelorette party, don’t be stupid enough togo off the beaten path. That’s what the girls do one day, swimming in abeautiful lagoon when Casey gets bit by something. “It’s just a little bite,”she says. We know better. When Casey gets home, the poorly-drawn characters takecenter stage for almost long enough to sink the film. We meet Casey’s fiancé, Jared(Jordan Gray), and her horrible soon-to-be mother-in-law (Lawrene Denkers).Jared is the kind of two-dimensional character really designed purely asanother thing for Casey to worry about. When she returns from her trip, hegreets her with an antique high chair (he wants kids, she’s not ready) and thengoes to work. The allegory of a young woman being pressured to have children bya workaholic fiancé with a horrible mother is so broad that it almostapproaches parody, but not quite, so the film lingers in that in-between space fora bit too long, in which we’re not sure how seriously we’re supposed to takethese caricatures. The acting in these early scenes is rough, and even theframing feels off. You can tell the filmmakers and performers are kind oftreading water until they get to the “good stuff.” Any horror fan will tellyou, the set-up can often be more rewarding than the follow-through if it’sdone well. After the rocky first act, “Bite” starts to find itsfooting. The concept of pairing quarter-life crisis concerns with body horrorstarts to click as Casey begins to notice the bite on her leg is, well, oozingand growing. There’s also a bit of a sexual assault allegory in that we learnthat Casey woke up on the beach without her clothes or her engagement ringduring the trip, thinking that one of the guys she met there must haveassaulted her. It's understandable that she’s too traumatized and scared to respond towhat’s happening with her body. Advertisement And then “Bite” gets crazy. Sure, there’s vomiting pus, but as someone says in one of my favorite lines long after Caseyhas gone full-Brundlefly, “People always get sick after vacations.” The movieclicks during a dream sequence of all things, as Casey is imagining a surpriseparty of all of her friends shouting “babies, babies, babies” as she gives birthto hundreds of insect eggs. It’s a moment Cronenberg himself would have loved.And, from there, “Bite” turns up the insanity. By the halfway point, Casey’sapartment is covered in egg sacs and her body is falling apart. And then peoplecome to check on her. The fact that anyone would walk into her cocoon-apartmentand not just scream and run away stretches logic, although the film is arguablyat its best when it embraces its own ridiculousness. At a certain point, it becomes clear that “Bite” hasbasically written itself into a corner, and it doesn’t escape in a waythat really satisfies, but the bulk of the film is a creative, icky ride.