Louise Osmond’s “Dark Horse,” an account of impecuniousWelsh villagers who team up to sponsor a race horse that surprises everyone byturning out a winner, has all the elements of crowd-pleasing Britflicks such as“The Full Monty,” “Billy Elliott” and “Pride.” It almost cries out to be a MikeLeigh film starringJim Broadbentand other members of the director’s stockcompany. Even with Leigh at the helm, though, it would be hard forany fictional treatment to beat the pleasures of Osmond's genial, enthrallingdocumentary. The story is one of those real-life, against-all-odds sagas thatalmost defies belief, yet the most important elements here are the characters.While the film (not to be confused, incidentally, with the recent New Zealanddrama “The Dark Horse”) has an abundance of quirky, colorful British types, twostand out in particular—one human, one equine. Advertisement The biped is a twinkly-eyed, middle-aged woman named JanVokes who works as both a barmaid and a supermarket cleaning woman in thedepressed Welsh village of Cefn Fforest. Tending bar one night, she hears a taxlawyer named Howard Davis discoursing on the ins and outs of raising racehorses. Horse racing, of course, is a sport that’s belonged to the aristocracyand the well-heeled for centuries, but Jan has a idea. The expenses are morethan she could afford, obviously, but what if a group of friends shared them? She quickly assembles a team of allies, who each pledge £10 per week to theventure. Some of her backers are unemployed, and all know that the odds againstany kind of success going up against such well-funded, experienced and tonycompetitors are high indeed. And Jan isn’t proposing to buy a horse, mind you.She’s starting from square one. A mare must be found, a stud fee paid(naturally, they can’t afford the pricier candidates), and birth awaited. The colt that results, initially all eyes andspindly legs, looks like it might not even be suitable for racing. But Janproceeds with her plans undaunted. A trainer is engaged and does his work. Thehorse, named Dream Alliance (Dream for short), eventually gets entered in arace and astonishes his backers by coming in fourth. But very soon, the realastonishment arrives: Dream wins a high-profile race. In this doc, as in any fictional treatment ofthis narrative, that first victory serves as the climax of act one. Act two alsoclimaxes with a big event, which won’t be revealed here. Suffice it to say,though, that the horse’s unexpected success entails problems. Yet those don’tinclude any divisions or fractiousness among his backers. One of the film’smost resonant pleasures is the friendship and solidarity these unostentatiousWelsh folk share; they remain warm-spirited and loyal to each other throughthick and thin. And their loyalty extends to their four-legged prodigy as well.When Dream needs some expensive help late in the story, they are ready to putup their winnings, because, they say, the money really belongs to the horseanyway. Advertisement As noted, the human brigade has a charismaticleader. In a film comprised mainly of retrospective interviews and news footagechronicling various races and the activities around them, Jan Vokes’recollections stand out, because the woman herself does. She’s usually filmedleaning slightly to one side, her straight auburn hair swaying as it frames herrecurrent smiles; it gives her a merry, mischievous look. Herirrepressible sense of fun—which encompasses realizing her whole enterprise’sabsurd improbability—sets the film’s light-hearted, engaging tone. The film’s equine star, Dream, also seems toharbor reserves of wit and playfulness. As happens with many favored animals,he develops a relationship with the humans around him that leaves many thinkinghe is communicating with them intentionally via certainlooks and actions. Seeing the footage of him, it’s hard not to share thatbelief. Dream does seem to have a certain self-consciousness, as if hisextraordinary, unexpected career on the track was driven by an understanding ofthose who invested so many hopes in him. He’s certainly a star, and easilyone of the most memorable characters you’re likely to see in a movie this year.