AlthoughRodrigo Plá’s “A Monster With a Thousand Heads,”about a woman who resorts to desperate measures against an insurancecompany that refuses to cover her husband’s treatment, can conveniently becategorized as a thriller, it’s one of those films that shouldn't be pigeonholed with a plot synopsis or a genre tag. The movie deserves to be known, first of all, as a terrificexample of intelligent, captivating film craft—further proof of the recentstrength of Mexican cinema. "A Monster with a Thousand Heads" grabs you with its first shot. Although there’ssomething visible on the screen’s right side, the image is so dark that Iwondered briefly if there was something wrong with the print or the projection.But there’s no problem; the image’s darkness—which soon clarifies that this is the bedroom of the protagonist’s husband—serves mainly to draw oureyes into the picture, one of a number of unexpected techniques that make thefilm so visually entrancing throughout. Advertisement Once we’re in that bedroom, the plot’s premise is sketchedin quickly and subtly. Mexico City housewife Sonia (Jana Raluy, a stage actresswho contributes brilliant work here) is doing everything she can to take careof her husband Guillermo, who’s bedridden with ever-worsening cancer. Though hekeeps up a brave front, it’s clear he’s in considerable pain, and she soonrealizes—after pouring through sheaves of medical data—that he needs a kindof treatment that his insurance company should okay but hasn’t. She first off goes to the office of the doctor whoseapproval is necessary, where she’s given an insulting, aggravating runaround. Shewaits for hours, then is told the doctor has gone for the day. He hasn’t,though, and when she realizes that, she goes in angry pursuit. Before she catches up with him, Dr. Villalba (Hugo Albores)exits the office into an underground car park with a younger colleague. In mostmovies, our attention would remain with Villalba, of course. But Plá puts hiscamera in the backseat of the car of the younger man, who mutters insultsagainst his colleague as he turns on his headlights, loud music blasts from hisstereo and we watch Villalba through the windshield. This kind of startlingmove, which shifts our perspective momentarily from the main characters to asecondary one, is an imaginative device that Plá uses to fine effectthroughout. Accompanied by her disbelieving teenage son Darío (SebastiánAguirre, who gave an equally fine deadpan performance in last year’s “Güeros”),Sonia tracks down Villalba, and soon enough they are trackingdown insurance company executives—over a weekend when they are both difficultto find and disinclined to be disturbed. The gist of what eventually emerges isthat some of those responsible for assigning coverage are pressured byhigher-ups to deny it to a certain number of clients, whether they’re entitledto it or not; that’s what has happened to Sonia’s husband. Advertisement Is this a common situation in Mexico—or for that matter,the United States? The screenplay here is byLaura Santullo, based on hernovel, and neither the film nor its press notes give any information regardingthe story’s factual background. But the basic, Kafkaesque idea of an ordinaryindividual up against a giant, uncaring bureaucracy is familiar enough to givethe tale a very credible emotional charge. Some ways into the story, we begin hearing commentary on itthat evidently is testimony in a trial (Sonia’s?) that happens after the eventswe witness. This adds another layer of complexity—while simultaneously addingcertain dollops of information—to Plá’s ingenious narrative and visual strategies.Also, at the one point, Sonia begins brandishing a pistol, which heightens thetension while moving us further into genre territory. Yet, though increasingly gripping, the film never feels likea conventional thriller. It retains the mesmerizing textures of an art film,thanks in part to cinematographerOdei Zabaleta’s burnished images. The film’svisual appeal also owes much to Bárbara Enríquez and Alejandro Garcia’sproduction design, which adds elements not only of character but also of understatedsocial commentary. As Sonia and Villalba go in search of the insuranceexecutives, they climb the social ladder, so to speak, visiting swank clubs andthe posh homes of the very rich. The journey tells you lots about the different levels ofwealth in Mexico, even as the story indicts a kind of corruption that keepsmany hapless citizens at the mercy of the predatory rich. And that, of course, istale that could be told almost anywhere in the world today, which is why thisbeautifully made film will hit home in any country it visits.