I’ve always found something morbidly fascinating aboutwatching talented actors and actresses give their all to a project that doesn’t deserve it. I start to try to figure out if and when they knew it was adisaster. Was it during the extended “kidney theft urban legend” bit? Was it whenthe director asked him to play a scene in which his tights get ripped off by aMexican woman calling herself Sarah McLachlan? Was it during the scene in whicha child falsely accuses them of molestation? When did these very funny andundeniably talented TV actors know that “Search Party” was a disaster? Delayedalmost two full years since its original release date and now barely released after being out on DVD in Europe for over a year,one gets the feeling that “Search Party” wouldn’t even be getting its minorrelease if stars T.J. Miller &Thomas Middleditchhadn’t proved suchresonant comic chemistry on HBO’s “Silicon Valley” and the always funny AdamPally hadn’t connected in films like last year’s “Night Owls” and the upcomingSundance hit “Joshy.” Otherwise, I imagine “Search Party” would have beenburied in the failed comedy cemetery in which it belongs. Advertisement One can almost see the thinking process that led to “SearchParty.” Get a bunch of talented TV actors together, hire a director who haswritten buddy comedies (Scot Armstrong, who has a co-writing credit on “The Hangover, Part II” and a story credit on “Old School”),and why not pick upTim Orr, the cinematographer from “Pineapple Express” for goodmeasure? It will write itself! No, it won’t. Nardo (Thomas Middleditch) is going to marry Tracy (ShannonWoodward of “Raising Hope”) but has a stoned conversation that leads buddyJason (T.J. Miller) to believe that he should put a stop to the wedding despite themore reasonable Evan’s (Adam Pally) protestations. (In “Hangover” casting terms,Middleditch ends up being the wackyZach Galifianakis, Pally is undeniably theEd Helms,and Miller is the recklessBradley Cooper). When Jason breaks the wedding up, Tracygoes on the honeymoon anyway, leading Nardo to try to follow her to Mexico. Beforeyou know it, Nardo is calling Jason & Evan because he’s been carjacked,left naked in a small Mexican border town. Ignoring the advice of his co-workerElizabeth (Alison Brie) and boss MacDonaldson (Lance Reddick), Evan getsessentially hijacked by Jason to help out the third spoke in their friendshipwheel. Along the way, they run intoKrysten Ritter(“Marvel’sJessica Jones”),Jason Mantzoukas(“The League”),Jon Glaser(“Parks and Recreation”) and J.B.Smoove (“Curb Your Enthusiasm”). I’ve seen awards shows with less TV stars inthe room. And yet none of them are given anything interesting to do. Armstrong and co-writersMike Gagerman&Andrew Wallerkeepthrowing their protagonists into increasingly bizarre situations in the hopesomething will register as funny. When the film gets to an EXTENDED bit thatriffs on the kidney-stealing urban legend at the end of the first act, you canjust watch all potential for it to become something interesting dissipate. (Thisis the point that most people will change the channel on cable.) It’s the kindof script that features a grown man lying on the floor in a moment ofdepression and saying “I’m a dirty cum rag,” and can’t go to Mexico withoutusing “La Bamba,” “La Cucaracha” and a man covered in cocaine—in thesame scene. It eventually devolves into one ofthose weird, “Huh?” movies in that I never thought I’d see J.B. Smoove lickcocaine off Thomas Middleditch’s face or Jason Mantzoukas shoot an arrow intoAdam Pally’s ass. But there are a lot of things here I never thought I’d see thatjust aren’t funny. “Search Party” is one of those stunning failures in relation to its cast's talent. To their credit, Middleditch and Pallyare asked to do a lot of physical comedy by their director—the “Silicon Valley”star spends most of the movie butt-naked (that still above either photoshopped in the shorts or it was an alternate take for airplane and network TV versions that will never happen)—and they’re always game foreverything, further proving their willingness to do whatever takes to get alaugh. Miller, Ritter, Mantzoukas, Smoove, Brie—I love this cast, even if Imost certainly do not love this movie. In that sense, “Search Party” pays offon my morbid fascination, proving that even if you invite a lot oftalented people to the set, the result won’t work if you don’t give them a wayto show why they’re considered talented. Advertisement