Has the massive success of “The Walking Dead” franchisestarted to impact international indie horror? It certainly feels that way whileone is watching the Danish zombie flick, “What We Become.” In fact, the namewas even used for a volume of the Robert Kirkman graphic novel on which the AMCshow is based. And the film has undeniable echoes of the spin-off, “Fear theWalking Dead,” in the way it tries to capture the early days of the end of theworld. Perhaps this is why the overfamiliarity ofBo Mikkelsen’s film can befrustrating. There are large chunks of “What We Become” that feel likesomething we’ve seen before, a repeat of the AMC series perhaps, and just whenit’s getting interesting, it ends, almost like it’s a pilot for a new series.There are enough elements that work—camera framing in the third act, use of score, thelead performance—that it’s worth a look for serious zombie fans (a group inwhich I would be a card-carrying member if someone took the time to printcards), but the film doesn't transcends its genre like the best. Advertisement “What We Become” is essentially about the end of the worldreflected through the end of a family. There’s the stern-but-kind father namedDino (Troels Lyby), mother Pernille (Mille Dinesen), teenage boy Gustav(Benjamin Engell) and young girl Maj (Ella Solgaard). Gustav is starting to getrebellious, ignoring his parents’ instructions, and certainly noticing thebeautiful young lady (Marie Hammer Boda) who just moved in across the street. Thesepeople live in a small, close community, the kind in which neighbors reach outto each other for help, such as when an older woman says her husband has died.The men that go to check on him and don’t find a body just presume she waswrong. Then things get weird. As the news reports of some sort of viral outbreak in theirarea starting to go nationwide, our nuclear unit notices an unusually highmilitary presence in their quaint community. The armed soldiers with gas masksthat order families to stay in their homes are straight out of countless zombieflicks from “Day of the Dead” to the final act of “28 Days Later.” From theminute they enter the picture, we know they’re going to be willing to stop thisoutbreak at whatever cost, including killing everyone in sight. When Gustavstarts hearing gunshots in the middle of the night, he becomes suspicious thatthe soldiers are there to wipe them out more than to protect them. Argumentsover whether or not to leave the home and flee or follow orders take up thebulk of the first hour of this short (81 minutes) film. And that’s a small problem. Mikkelsen makes the choice toessentially make the film a flashback, opening with a scene of Pernille in herbedroom, cradling a body as scary noises get louder and closer. So, we knowthings are going to getmuchworsebefore they get better. Consequently, most of “What We Become” is a slow-burn of a fuse that we know leads to an explosion. And Mikkelsen uses a few too many clichésof the genre while we wait. (Do people really watch old home movies while theworld is ending?) Advertisement What saves “What We Become” happens late in the film, aroundthe hour mark, when the movie becomes surprisingly action-heavy and Mikkelsenand his team prove more than capable of making a low-budget zombie flick thatconnects. It becomes a tense thriller—especially in a scene in which Dino andhis neighbor recon the area for a planned escape—and Mikkelsen isn’t afraid toget vicious and dark. As the film peaks, its derivative, clichéd nature fallsaway and it becomes its own thing. Your enjoyment level will be determined byif you’re patient enough with it to get to that point.