The sequel to 2014’s comedy hit “Neighbors” is a goodnews/bad news proposition. As my low star rating suggests, for this reviewer itis mostly averybad newsproposition. But one does tire, at times, of possibly engendering readerhostility by unloading on a deeply mediocre popular/populist comedy. So let’s look at the half-glass-full, good news side ofthings. If you enjoySeth Rogenas a general rule, this movie, in which hereprises his role as put-upon wannabe-responsible husband and father MacRadner, provides some of what could be considered satisfactory Rogen material:some rough verbal wit, a lot of weed jokes, the spectacle of the chunky comicactor with his shirt off, and a bit more of all that.Rose Byrnereprises her“Neighbors” role as Kelly, Mac’s refreshingly salty wife, and Rogen and Byrnedisplay a comic chemistry, banter-wise, that’s not entirely withoutcredibility.Zac Efron, also back as frat party boy Teddy, is reliably game andalso frequently shirtless, which means something different and possiblyexciting when you’re Zac Efron. The humor of the film is similarly raucous andvulgar to that of the original. So in the event that you're already a fan, this might hit the spot. Advertisement The bad news is that, as movies go, “Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising” barelyqualifies as one. It looks like it was edited through some kind of shredder.The movie’s premise is a gender-reversed iteration of the first film’s, e.g.,the Radners, now with two-year-old child, have their domestic stabilityendangered by a neighboring not-fraternity-but-sorority. (Hence, the title.)Sounds simple, but there’s a lot more time expended in the setup of this switchthan you might reasonably expect. Possibly because the filmmakers want to makesome kind of mild political statement espousing feminism, or maybe for someother reason—like maybe they don’t know what the hell they’re doing.I say this because in all the throat-clearing of the exposition leading theformation of the party-friendly sorority called Kappa Nu, not a whole lot makessense. Once the house next door to the Radners’ is rented, the lead sororityinnovator Shelby (Chloe Grace Moretz) makes a near-complete and largelyarbitrary transition from Feisty Outsider to Truculent Mean Girl. Because themovie just wouldn’t be what it wants to be without having the young actresspeer out a window and sneer “It’s on.” The movie breaks down into a series of sketches, withExperiments In Outrageous Humor (small children interacting with sex toys, ahighly unhygienic attack on the Radner house from the sorority, using aterribly specific choice of spongy weapon) taking extreme precedent overcharacter development and narrative coherence. The scenario is so thin that themovie pretty much repeats the same “what are we gonna do?” scene at thesorority house less than ten minutes after the first one. This seems eithermore or less quizzical on learning that the movie has five creditedscreenwriters.