It is perhaps an appropriate election year toremind ourselves that change in this country takes blood, sweat and tears. At atime when the nation feels more divided than ever, it’shealthy to look back at one of the turning points in the political system of theUnited States, a fight for civil rights that pushed the establishment so hardthat it forever reshaped the electoral college. Think about this amazing fact:Before the Presidential election in 1964, Georgia had never voted Republican.They have done so in the last five elections. The “Republican South” wasn’talways so much of a given, and HBO’s “All the Way” makes the case that a lot ofthis political shift started because Lyndon B. Johnson recognized the importanceof civil rights when he ascended to the presidency after the assassination ofJohn F. Kennedy, turning it into the election issue of that year and provokingthe ire of a GOP establishment that wasn’t on the right side of history. Advertisement This excellent drama, carried by a truly incredible performance from BryanCranston, captures the difficulty of the political machine. "All the Way" can be a littlefrustratingly thin, in that it tries to do a bit too much in 132 minutes,turning complex political figures into “plot device characters” (ones who comeinto frame, serve their purpose for the protagonist, and exit stage right), butthere’s so much worthy of discussion in the piece that “All the Way” neverdrags. And Cranston should clear some more mantle space for a future Emmyand Golden Globe to sit next to the Tony he won for this role. Adapted from his play of the same name, writer RobertSchenkkan, working with directorJay Roach, is careful not to make “All theWay” feel like a filmed play. A cinematic score byJames Newton Howard, andfluid, complex camera work byJim Denaulthelp that effort, but it’s theengaging turn by Cranston that really magnifies the source material. One cansee why he was so praised on stage (I never saw the play) as he embodiesJohnson, diving into both his outlandish behavior (having meetings while on thetoilet) and complex moral code. In many ways, it is everything that Cranston’sperformance in “Trumbo,” also directed by Roach, was not. While thatperformance felt like a caricature, Johnson feels well-rounded and complex fromminute one of “All the Way.” In that first minute, Johnson is on Air Force One, with astill-bloody Jackie Kennedy, after her husband’s assassination. He’s going totake the Oath of Office to become the President of the United States. In hisfirst speech as President, Johnson affirms that the Civil Rights bill hispredecessor started will be his priority. Johnson’s former mentor and friendSenator Richard Russell Jr. (a perfect and understatedFrank Langella) isn’ttoo happy with this decision, but Hubert Humphrey (Bradley Whitford) embracesthe directive, positioning himself to be Johnson’s Vice President in theupcoming election. Most of all, Martin Luther King Jr. (Anthony Mackie)recognizes that he will have to work carefully with Johnson to get what hismovement demands from the government. Advertisement Concessions start quickly. Johnson learns that unless heremoves voting rights from the bill, it won’t pass. From the beginning,Schenkkan and Roach are working with the very core of the political game in how they capture what Johnson knew was and was not possible. Whilesome encourage him to fight for voting rights, he realizes that fair employmentand making other discriminatory practices illegal this year is step one, andvoting rights is next year. As J. Edgar Hoover (a cartoonishStephen Root)spies on King to try to get dirt and Lady Bird Johnson (Melissa Leo) stands byher husband’s side, the political stew starts to boil. As the election seasonheats up, party lines are drawn and unexpected curveballs keep Johnson from aneasy path to stay in the White House. Few films have better captured theunpredictability of the campaign season, such as when the murder of a civil rightsactivists derails his strategy or when the arrest of someone close to himnearly ruins everything. And it’s impossible not to read a bit of commentaryinto the current political season when Johnson mentions “outside forcesconquering and destroying the South by appealing to their racial hatred." It's a line that was either prescient to the racial divisions defining thiscampaign or written for the movie and not the play. While there’s a lot to like in Schenkkan's smart script, “Allthe Way” is really a vehicle for Cranston, and he delivers in ways that make itmuch easier to forget “Trumbo.” This is such a nuanced take on acharacter who could be larger than life. He’s got the accent, the bloated ego and all the elements on to which other actor’s would hang the entireperformance, but then he shades from there. Right from the beginning, whenJohnson is questioning how seriously he’ll be taken as he steps into Kennedy’sshoes, this is an intricate acting turn that’s more interested in characterdetails than caricature. Mackie is good, though MLK plays more of a supportingrole here than he arguably should have. But "All the Way" focuses on Johnson’s role in the civilrights movement, notthe story of civil rights on the ground in the South, as so deftly captured in Ava DuVernay's “Selma.” "All the Way" can be a crowded film, and roles likeHoover & Lady Bird aren’t designed to feel like more than sounding boardsfor Johnson. As with a lot of stage-to-screen productions, the backgroundplayers sort of fade into a chorus, but what’s there in the spotlight, centerstage, isn’t just a great performance but a formative chapter in our history;one that’s still to be written.