There’s a scene midway throughShane Black’s fun “The NiceGuys” in whichRyan Gosling’s truly mediocre private investigator has stumbleddown a hill, drunkenly trying to impress a girl at a party. As he will doseveral times in the film, he literally falls into a clue, a rotting corpse ofsomeone he’s been looking for. And what doesGosling do when he comes face to face with it? He doesn’t respond in the typicallynonchalant movie star way. No, he digs much deeper into the comedy movie bag oftricks and pulls out, of all things, a Lou Costello impression—that wonderful,silent scream the actor would do when he saw something like the Wolfman. It is a truly hysterical moment, one of several bitsof physical comedy that Gosling pulls off throughout “TheNice Guys.” Combined with the excellent straight man work byRussell Crowe, thetwo actors become a surprisingly brilliant comedy duo, carrying “The Nice Guys”past a few flat jokes, needed edits and a cluttered finale. Advertisement Gosling plays Holland March, a pretty pathetic P.I.whose wife died in a house explosion, leaving him with an alcohol problem andthe sole parenting job of 13-year-old Holly (the naturally gifted AngourieRice). March is hired to find a porn star named Misty Mountains, who we knowdied in a car accident. In the film's opening scene, a kid waits until his parents areasleep and pulls out a porno mag, gazing lovingly at the centerfold model, revealed to be Ms. Mountains. Just then, a car comes careening through his houseand down the L.A. hillside. The kid stumbles to the car to find Misty herselfsplayed out in much the same position she was in the centerfold, but she’sbloody and dying. He covers her up. From the beginning, Black starts developingthe theme of a dark world in which the “nice guys” muster as much decency aspossible, even if it’s covering up the body of someone you were ogling minutesbefore. March’s search for Misty leads him to try and track downsomeone who worked on a porno with her recently, Amelia (Margaret Qualley), whohappens to have hired a muscle guy named Jackson Healy (Crowe) to protect her. Healyis a level below your typical City of Angels P.I., the kind of guy who you hireto send a message with brass knuckles more than to find someone. And so heconveys the message to March that he should stop looking for Amelia. When theyrealize something very strange is going on with the dead-not-dead porn star andeveryone else involved with a particular adult production, March and Healy teamup in a very Shane Black style. This is the writer and director who redefined the buddy actioncomedy when he wrote “Lethal Weapon,” although this particular piece has morein common with his underrated directorial effort “Kiss Kiss Bang Bang.” “The Nice Guys” is a dark comedy that takes place in a time inwhich Kennedy is dead, poverty is on the rise, corruption is rampant, the Hollywood sign is falling down and pornis as successful as the auto industry (I love the parallel party sequences, onecelebrating adult film and one celebrating car manufacturers ... they look nearly identical other than the degree of nudity). It’s reallyabout people trying to keep their heads above rising waters, and what it takesto maintain some semblance of decency in an increasingly indecent world. Andyet Black is smart enough to not make his leading men into saints. Healy is ablunt instrument, a man who gets the job done and gets out, but he’s also got asense of what he should and should not do for a paying client. He'll break your arm, but he's breaking your arm for a reason. March is an alcoholic without much desire tofix that particular problem today; there are more pressing ones. One of theoperating beliefs of the film could be summed up when Healy says heroically, “We’regonna hunt down the people who did it,” and March chimes in with a perfectlytimed, “for a deeply discounted rate.” Everybody in this cesspool of a city getsa cut, even the good guys, as  set in a time period when a 13-year-old can be the only remaining, decent voice of reason. Advertisement The cast is perfect, but “The Nice Guys” could have used one more rewrite or two andanother trip to the editing bay to really streamline jokes that don’t workand a plot that gets more cluttered than engaging. It’s not until an actualvillain (Matt Bomer) shows up more than an hour into the piece that you realizethat the movie didn’t have one before then (although one could argue theentire city of L.A. is the bad guy). And some of the bits get repetitive before themovie’s over. We know that Holly is the brains, Healy is the brawn and March isthe bumbling hero that ties them together before this trio figures it out forthemselves, and I wish the film had another surprise up its sleeve, a narrativeturn that felt fresher than the inevitable Shane Black Shootout waiting in theclimax. Having said that, what I think people will underrate themost about “The Nice Guys” is the choreography of the entire piece.Without spoiling specific details, the final sequence features Gosling chasingsomething and falling on car hoods, into windshields, and over his own twofeet. He’s far from the suave hero you’ll see in a dozen other summerblockbusters this year. And Gosling completely sells it, as he does throughout theentire film. He may not be the hero that L.A. needs in the '70s, but he's the hero that L.A.'s got in the '70s. And it’s his gift for slapstick, combined with his fantastic chemistry with Crowe, that makes these "Nice Guys” worth a look. Unlike most comedies in recent memory, I'd gladly watch another adventure with these three characters front and center. Maybe they'll finally catch a break.