“Personhood” is the concept at the center of “Unlocking theCage,” a new work by iconic documentary filmmakers D.A. Pennebaker and ChrisHegedus. From a legal perspective, are there cases in which animals can beconsidered persons with rights that might include not being confined in cruelor onerous circumstances? In the past it was assumed that persons wereindividual human beings. But then came the Citizens United case, where thepersonhood of corporations was affirmed. Might the definition be expanded toinclude certain non-human, non-corporate individual beings? Advertisement The fight for animal rights has been a growing movement inrecent decades, one with many fronts and expressions, from principledvegetarianism to protests against scientific experimentation on animals.“Unlocking the Cage” focuses on the U.S. legal front and one intrepid animaladvocate in particular. From his home in Florida, attorney Steven Wise recalls thathe had a standard practice for a young lawyer back in 1979 when someone gavehim the book that changed his life, Peter Singer’s “Animal Liberation.”Deciding he could do much more good in his life trying to defend a whole speciesrather than individual human miscreants, he dedicated his career to making thecase that non-humans should have rights under the law. It was not easygoing, especially early on. “People laughedat me,” he recalls. “They barked when I went into a courtroom.” But Wise’spersistence eventually produced results. In 2000, he began to teach a course onthe subject at Harvard. “Unlocking the Cage” follows Wise and his colleagues in theNonhuman Rights Project over about three years as they push cases regardingindividual animals through the courts of New York state. Attempting to give hisefforts certain boundaries that will make them more effective, he generallyfocuses his arguments on three types of non-humans—great apes, elephants andcetaceans. These have all been studied and determined to have highlydeveloped cognitive abilities and awareness of themselves and theirenvironments. Wise says that each has a “theory of mind,” the meaning of whichis rather murky even if his intent is clear. From both legal and publicitystandpoints, these three non-human groups also have the advantages of notresiding in the United States or figuring into the diets of its (human)denizens. In any event it’s only apes that figure into the casesbefore New York’s courts in “Unlocking the Cage.” We see Wise and hiscolleagues going around the state and looking at apes in differentcircumstances. Some are in protected sanctuaries where they demonstratesometimes quite astonishing abilities to reason, remember and communicate withtheir human keepers. Others, though, are apparently being kept just for thesake of being kept and exhibited (or possibly, used for experiments); it’sthese non-humans that Wise builds court cases around. Advertisement We see several of his appearances in front of judges makinghis arguments, and it must be said these are no more scintillating or full ofhigh drama than most courtroom procedurals. All the same, there’s import and interest not only in how careful, respectfuland scrupulous most of the judges seem but also in how gradual andpainstakingly incremental the animal advocates’ strategy is. They’re arguing about individual animals, apes with nameslike Merlin and Koko, but their real aim is to gain legal personhood foranimals—at least certain kinds, as a start. And in the course of the film, wesee them make some small but important steps toward that goal. Where will this lead? When Wise appears on his show, StephenColbert wonders if his dog will soon be suing to get on this couch. The ideathat an ape can be granted habeas corpus—as the film shows, similar cases areafoot in other parts of the world—generates all sorts of mirth, derisive andotherwise. When he’s asked if all of this could end up in a cow successfullysuing not to be slaughtered, Wise says this might come only generations afterhis own lifetime, but he wouldn’t be unhappy if it eventually happened. Of course, as its title suggests, “Unlocking the Cage” is akind of advocacy journalism, not an attempt to weigh the cons as well as thepros of whether non-humans should have human-like rights. But the film willsurely have its own role to play in the arena that perhaps counts most: thecourt of public opinion. Polls show that public views of animal rights have alsobeen evolving in recent years. Wise, obviously, has reasons for optimism. Atleast they’re no longer barking at him.