The superhero genre has gone through dramatic changes since     Bryan Singer    directed “     X-Men    ” in 2000, and now finds itself in a precarious place. Thecity-level destruction that characterizes so many third acts has becomevisually rote and morally abhorrent. And how many more movies can we handleabout white men given great power who churn out jokes and punches with equalaplomb? The genre desperately needs to diversify not just in terms of race andgender but also the kinds of stories on which filmmakers choose to focus. “X-Men:Apocalypse” should be a corrective measure, considering its ensemble allows forthe opportunity to focus on popular female and people-of-color characters.Instead, it magnifies all the worst issues of the genre, serving up a storythat would have felt dated five years ago.Advertisement "X-Men: Apocalypse" is a confused, bloated mess of a film. There are several films crammed into one, all battling for the spotlight, and none of them wholly work; there is really no central storyline or heart tothe film. The first hour is almost entirely in service of setting up newplayers and establishing what the veterans are up to. Charles Xavier/ProfessorX (James McAvoy) is successfully running his school for mutant kids. RavenDarkholme/Mystique (Jennifer Lawrence) is rescuing mutants, including thewalking punchline Nightcrawler (Kodi Smit-McPhee) on her own, and strugglingwith being seen as a hero. Then there are the teenaged Scott Summers/Cyclops(Tye Sheridan) and Jean Grey (Sophie Turner) who are struggling to cope withtheir powers and fledgling attraction to each other. Sheridan and Turner seemto actually be enjoying themselves but their development staggers under theweight of everything else going on around them; Jean grappling with the darkside of her abilities is especially fertile ground. One of the few evocativescenes involves her having a nightmare which rocks the school and burns thewalls of her room before Xavier comforts her. Even though she gets a big heromoment at the end, it doesn’t land well, given how poorly she’s developed. Singerdoesn’t offer the scant interesting moments enough room to breathe. He’s toointerested in hurtling to the next plot point, the next introduction, the nextfight scene. The greatest sin of “X-Men: Apocalypse” by far is howterribly it wastes some of the greatest modern actors.Michael Fassbendercan’tgive Magneto’s storyline the emotional depth it needs.But could any actor distract from how that storyline embodies the most onerous clichéin regards to the treatment of women in comics? How many more wives anddaughters will be killed in these kinds of films in order to give a male leadsome angst?As the movie's world-destroying, god-like mutant,Oscar Isaacstruggles to make Apocalypse even the least bit menacing. How can an actor as charismatic and dynamic as Isaacfeel so torpid here? The failure to make Apocalypse engaging is mostly thefault ofSimon Kinberg’s script. These operatic, world-destroying villains don’t seemto work on-screen as they do in comics. Their motivations are—at best—confusing and nonsensical. They seem so disconnected from the world the heroesmove through that they almost exist in entirely different films. Perhaps,“X-Men: Apocalypse” also exhibits the worst traits of these sort of stories inthe comics, which can be damningly inert, nihilistic, and overcrowded on theirown, before even being adapted for the screen. Despite Apocalypse’s backstory and grandstanding, he spends more timeimbuing his Four Horseman with power than wielding his own. The rest of Apocalypse’s team are the smug yet forgettableAngel (Ben Hardy), Psylocke (Olivia Munn) and a young Storm (Alexandra Shipp).None of these characters are all that interesting but Psylocke and Storm embodythe ways this entire series has failed its female characters; Psylocke is such a one-dimensional villain she seems two steps away from twirling a mustache. Singer andKinberg are seemingly incapable of developing more than one female character ata time. There’s also something deeply troubling about a series thattrades in the language and ideas of the Civil Rights Movement without caring oneiota about its characters of color. Storm is once again given very little todo. She has none of the emotional interiority, swagger or complexity of hercomic counterpart. Jubilee (Lana Condor) is such a non-factor she could betaken out entirely and nothing would change. Raven and Jean areslightly better served, but Jean’s development is too inconsistent to leavemuch of an impact. Raven comes off far worse due to Lawrence's obvious disinterest in the role, coasting from scene to scene with none of her trademarkcharisma. When Raven reverts to her natural blue form (which is probably one ofthe worst translations of a character from page to screen in modern comic bookfilms) her performance somehow becomes even more unengaging. Advertisement While much has been made about how superhero films rely onthe destruction of cities in order to make the stakes higher for heroes,“X-Men: Apocalypse” takes this idea to the next level with startling violence. It isn’t just one city that hangs in the balance,it’s the entire world. The destruction in the third act is sowide-ranging, so cataclysmic, that it zaps the film of any tension.There is no sense of danger here, only the distinct feelingthat nearly everyone involved is counting down the minutes until this wholeaffair is over.There is one scene involving the surprisingly funQuicksilver (Evan Peters) that gives “X-Men: Apocalypse” one of its onlyvisually interesting moments. He uses his super-speed to traverse throughXavier’s school saving people from an explosion, as set to “Sweet Dreams (AreMade of This)” by The Eurythmics—a confounding music choice, to saythe least. Singer finds some physical humor and levity in Quicksilver’singenious ways of saving everyone. But it’s the only scene in a film almost 150 minutes long that gets close to evoking the bright-colored, zany nature the comics candelve into at their best. It isn’t enough to save what proves to be anemotionally empty and morally confused film. “X-Men: Apocalypse”isn’t just the low point in Singer’s series, it represents one of the ugliestsuperhero films in recent memory.