Steven Brill’s “The Do-Over,” the latest in a multi-picturedeal between Netflix andAdam Sandler, starts like a real movie. At first,there’s a sense that it’s something at least greater than the half-star abominationthat was last year’s “The Ridiculous Six.” This feeling doesn’t last long. Bythe time this unfunny, sexist, homophobic, stupid movie has reached the hourpoint, any goodwill created by the set-up is long gone. At one point, I checkedthe time code on Netflix and saw that the movie had over forty minutes to go. Ivisibly winced. Advertisement The set-up is OK (at least when compared to theincreasing laziness of Sandler’s recent output). Sandler plays Max, asmooth-talking guy who runs into an old friend named Charlie (David Spade) at areunion. Charlie’s life is a mess. His wife Nikki (Natasha Leggero) is sleepingaround (withSean Astin), his kids hate him, and he’s just generallymiserable. Reuniting with Max turns him into a goofy teenager again, having funand avoiding his depressing reality. When Max decides to fake their deaths sothey can start over in Puerto Rico, Charlie doesn’t object for long. Of course,they can’t party it up in their new identities for long without the need for aconvoluted Happy Madison plot, and that’s when armed men show up and they getinvolved with the widow (Paula Patton) of one of the men whose identities theystole. Narratively, it’s a film that gets markedly dumber with every passingminute. “The Do-Over” is the kind of film in which two essentially50-year-old men (Spade is 52 and Sandler is 49) are riding around on a yachtwhen they spot a few bikini-clad ladies on another vessel. If you’re playingSandler Mad Libs at home, you instantly know that Adam is going to ask thewomen to flash them. They oblige, but then ask Spade’s character to return thefavor by dropping his trousers, after which they laugh at his dick. Sandlerthen shoots the women with a flare gun. And the cherry on this Bad Scene Sundaecomes with the following in voiceover, “I couldn’t believe it. I was having thebest time of my adult life.” It’s one of only about three times I laughed outloud while watching “The Do-Over,” but not for the reasons Sandler wanted. I use this example not just to point out the incredibly lowlevel of humor in “The Do-Over,” but to note how structurally, tonallydisastrous the whole thing is. Like that scene, almost every moment has multiplepunchlines. Charlie and Max decide they have to get tattoos and piercings tomatch the dead guys. Charlie finds a stud, thinks it’s for his ear, and thenlearns it’s for his tongue. That’s the joke. Then we get a wide-eyed shot of itgoing in. Then we get the swollen tongue the next day. Then we get a scene ofhim eating a popsicle, unable to talk. Imagine a stand-up comedian who justpiles on to one lame joke after another, repeating the punchline with a fewwords changed. The rhythm isn’t there. It feels desperate, almost as if thedeal that Sandler worked out with Netflix required that he be paid by theminute. How else to explain the fact that this film is 108 minutes long? (Andit feels twice as long as that.) Advertisement There are really brief spots that work, most of themcourtesy of the fearlessKathryn Hahn, who shows up as Max’s crazy ex. Hahn hasthe comic timing to make nearly anything work, even this disaster. I wish I couldhave followed her into a better movie. Although her arrival is right aroundwhen most people will realize how sexist this whole thing is. Almost everyfemale character is there to be screwed or to screw the guys over. Or both.This is how Sandler’s brand has always portrayed their female characters, butit’s just increasingly depressing. When the climax of the film features acatfight set to Madonna’s “Crazy For You,” in slow motion, I shouldn’t besurprised, but that doesn’t make it any more forgivable. For years now, Adam Sandler has been making movies tobankroll his vacations. That’s why most of “Just Go With It” takes place inHawaii. “Blended” actually shot in South Africa. Sandler gets his buddiestogether, finds a studio to pay for them all to take a vacation, and loosely “writes”a movie set in his chosen destination (screenwriting credit goes toKevin BarnettandChris Pappas). This time it was Puerto Rico, andSandler puts in the same degree of effort as his disastrous theatrical “VacationComedies." You’d think by now that someone would figure this out. Maybe thestudios did and that’s why Sandler ran to the remarkably open checkbook ofNetflix. Maybe one day, they’ll read the script before they book the planetickets. Or at least make sure he's got one.