Charles Ferguson’s “Time to Choose” has a very directmission statement. There’s no time for alternate viewpoints when you’re going toinclude lines like “We don’t want to fail humanity” in the opening scenes. ForFerguson and co-writer/editorChad Beck, the subject matter of “Time to Choose”is nothing less than the fate of our children. It’s tempting to ask yourselfwhat has really changed since “An Inconvenient Truth” opened eyes around theworld, and countless other climate change docs followed in its Oscar-winningwake, but the main reason that “Time to Choose” feels different and has valueis that it actually offer solutions and hope. Most of these “The End is Coming” films spew facts about Greenland’s ice sheet and thevanishing coral reef almost like horror films, leaving viewers wondering whatthe heck they’re supposed to do about it, especially if they’re not inclined tovisit the website thrown up in the end credits of the cautionary doc they justwatched. What elevates “Time to Choose,” other than its very strong editing byBeck, is the sense that not only are people doing something to change thetrajectory of our planet’s depleted resources but that you can make adifference too. Advertisement Of course, the first act of any of these films isterrifying, and Ferguson wastes no time. Water supplies are diminishing; naturaldisasters are increasing; wild fires are more prevalent; global sea levels haverisen by eight inches in record time, leading to “Many of our major cities will besubmerged.” And this all happens before the five-minute mark. There’s animpressive “shock and awe” strategy to the opening of “Time to Choose” that almostdemands you pay attention. And narratorOscar Isaac’s soothing yet confidentvoice helps in that regard as well. The film is divided into three chapters. In the first, “Coaland Electricity,” Ferguson and Beck start in West Virginia, a part of thecountry defined by the coal industry. Immediately, they go from the “macroapproach” of the impact of their subject on the world and future generations tohow depleting the Earth’s resources is changing lives today. We meet a womanwith four children who all have asthma because of mountaintop coal removal.Millions of acres of mountains in the Appalachians have been blownup, sending elements like arsenic into valleys that are the source of water foreveryone around them. Coal sludge is killing people, and creating a captivelabor force in that there’s no other work and no one will buy the houses inthis area. And it’s MUCH worse in China, where safety is an afterthought. Blacklung is killing thousands; coal mines are collapsing; 10 million peoplecurrently suffer from black lung; the average underground coal miner in Chinahas a life expectancy of 49. Right around the point you’ll want to switch over to clipsof puppies and cartoons to stop from crying, the heartwarming classical musickicks in (piano & strings), and Ferguson & Beck very deftly switch tothe solution: Wind and solar power, which has killed no one. Renewable energy,which has become competitive with fossil fuels during the production of thefilm, is now a reality. Ferguson interviews representatives from companies likeSolarcity and Sungevity, people ready to replace the electricity sector witha better machine. And, as the film notes, viable solar power has the capabilityto help end poverty. It would forever change parts of the world that don’t haveaccess to the electricity infrastructure. And while companies like Exxon andChevron will do a lot to fight it, change is already happening at companieslike Google and Ikea, who rely a lot on solar power. Advertisement Part two moves to “Oil and Cars,” and one realizes at thispoint that any of these sections have enough material to fill their own films.Ferguson has a remarkable ability to distill subjects in ways that don’tdiminish their complexity, which he did to incredible effect in the stunning “NoEnd in Sight,” still the best doc on the Iraq War in my opinion. In part twoand part three (“Land and Food”), Ferguson and Beck follow the same structure—presentingdisturbing facts like how oil has taken over the Niger Delta or how 30% of theEarth’s land is now being used for its livestock, and then showing peoplewilling to make changes and how you can do so as well. So many “Doom and Gloom Docs” artistically present theproblems without the solutions. “Time to Choose” isn’t so much an advocacy documentary as it is an activism one, encouraging you to do something about the problem.The title is a bit misleading. It’s hard to watch the film and think there’sany other choice.