For its first thirty minutes or so, “Popstar: Never StopNever Stopping” feels like the great comedy you did not know you needed in yourlife. That is to say, it feels like the “This is Spinal Tap” for the JustinBieber generation. Credited as a “Lonely Island” film, it is the work of thethree musically adept comic minds behind the “Saturday Night Live” digital shorts that were for a long time a mainstay and highlight of that comedyseries. The LI front man was, and remains,Andy Samberg, the trio member whowas also a full-time cast member of “SNL.” Their song pastiches combine raunchyhumor (you may recall “D**k in a Box”) with more-clever-than-normal wordplayfor stuff so raunchy-humor-based, with a lot of genuine absurdism all tied together by beats and melodies that are ascredible as those in, you know, genuine contemporary pop songs. Some of thesongs here are pretty jaw-dropping, and at first the frameconstructed around them seems pretty can’t-miss. Advertisement Samberg plays Conner4Real, a pop star who, as explainedin fake-rock-doc-minus-Marty-DiBergi-style, started in a Beastie Boys-like triocalled “The Style Boyz.” Depicted doing their big hit “Karate Boy,” they are ofcourse rather spectacularly inept, and their ineptitude is made rather funnierby real-life cameos from the likes of Questlove and Nas testifying to theirvital influence—“Are you kidding me, that song changed my life,” says Nas, withsufficient conviction to earn him a Best Supporting Actor Oscar nomination. Butit’s clear, at least to some unknown contingent, that Conner is the breakoutstar of the group, and the Style Boyz—the other two are played by the otherLonely Island fellows,Akiva SchafferandJorma Taccone; they co-wrote themovie with Samberg, and take the directorial credit with Samberg as producer—disband. Owen (Taccone) becomes the DJ for Conner’s solo act—he hasthe whole set on an iPod, which he also uses to listen to audiobooks on theroad—while Schaffer’s Lawrence becomes “a farmer” and carver of very awful woodsculptures. (Schaffer wears a beard so egregiously fake that I was convincedthat it was itself a sight gag he would peel off on-camera at some point.But no.) “Popstar”’s story begins with Conner prepping therelease of his followup album to his solo debut, which he titled “Thriller,Also.” Conner is quite the dimbulb, and Samberg plays him with the trademarksweet goofiness that’s his most reliable performing mode. The movie cheerfullyskewers pretty much every convention of pop music manufacturing. Of his newalbum “ConnQuest,” Conner says “We’re gonna be surprise releasing it nextThursday.” His big artistic breakthrough is described as his pioneering of an“all-catchphrase” guest rap on another artist’s song. And more, and more, withexpert comic bits executed not just by the supporting cast proper, whichincludesTim MeadowsandSarah Silverman, but also by a near-endless stream ofcameo performers drawn from Samberg’s circles in both music and comedy and theplace on the showbiz Venn Diagram where they meet. The movie also happens tocontain one of the sharpest, and most pointed, send-ups of TMZ I’ve ever seen.And then there are the songs, one a “sincere” plea for marital equality thatquickly devolves into Conner’s own perhaps-protesting-too-much declaration ofhis own sexual preferences. The “live” version of a number referencing Osamabin Laden is also a treat. But, the movie’s storyline is, truth to tell, a little thin.It’s pretty much the same scenario as the aforementioned “This is Spinal Tap,” withdifferent structural stresses. That is, the “band” in this movie breaks uppretty early on, but the quixotic nature of Conner’s, um, new direction is soplain that certain inevitable scenes feel more inevitable than actually earned,which was never a problem with “This is Spinal Tap.” And there are peaks and valleys tothe movie that are too noticeable. The movie’s a tidy 90 minutes or so, butit starts to sag at the hour-mark and doesn’t get its oomph back for a while.All that said, though, what’s good about this movie is funny, and refreshing,enough to make the dry spots feel more tolerable in retrospect. I’m alreadyhoping for a lot of deleted scenes on the Blu-ray release. Advertisement