Over the years, there have been many attempts by filmmakers toput a comedic spin on the traditional vampire mythos that have been lackluster at best. Oh sure, sometimes an inspiredone comes along, likeRoman Polanski’s weirdo cult favorite “The FearlessVampire Killers” or the hilarious recent effort “What We Do in the Shadows,”but more often than not, they tend to lean towards the lame and easilyforgettable likes of “Love at First Bite,” “Once Bitten” or “BloodsuckingBastards.” Even a comedy legend likeMel Brookscouldn’t pull thevampire comedy thing off when he made “Dracula: Dead and Loving It,” despite hisdeployment of the immortal line, “Yes, we have Nosferatu—we have Nosferatutoday.” The new Austrian import “Therapy for a Vampire” is the latest film toattempt to find the lighter side of bloodsuckers and it even adds a reasonablyinspired idea into the mix. Alas, the result is a thoroughly mediocre movie that is never as amusing as it should be. Advertisement Set in Vienna in 1932, the film opens as no less of a figure thanSigmund Freud (Karl Fischer) himself is seeing a new patient, Count Geza von Közsnöm (Tobias Moretti), for the first time. The Count has the usualcomplaints—he admits that he is no good at self-reflection, has lost histhirst for life and has been married to his wife, Countess Elsa (JeanetteHain), for so long that he has grown disenchanted with her even as he continuesto pine for his long-lost first love, the one who made him who he is today. Thejoke, of course, is that what might sound like psychobabble from other patientsturns out to be the literal truth from the Count because he is a vampire.Oddly, the great Freud doesn’t quite twig to what is really going on with hispatient—he is so absorbed in his notes, for example, that he fails to noticethat the Count is actually floating a few feet above the couch during theirsessions. Meanwhile, Freud has also employed local artist Viktor (DominicOley) to produce a series of illustrations based upon his dreams. Viktor, asit turns out, has a few issues as well—every time he paints a portrait of hisfiancée, Lucy (Cornelia Ivancan), he ends up producing a glamorous fantasyimage of her instead of one resembling the more sensible person actuallystanding before him. As it turns out, the fantasy version of Lucy is the spitting image of Nadila, the lost love whose return the Count has beenpining for ever since she died in Constantinople centuries earlier. Instantlybesotted with Lucy, the Count takes advantage of Elsa’s overwhelming desire tohave a portrait of herself painted so that she can once again have an idea ofwhat she looks like—the kind of thing that tends to slip the mind aftercenturies of not being able to cast a reflection in a mirror—by sending her offto Viktor to paint her and using that time to woo Lucy for himself. In newsthat will shock few of you, things do not quite go as planned and get even morecomplicated when Ignaz (Anatole Taubman), the Count’s long-suffering servant,becomes determined to have Lucy as well. “Therapy for a Vampire” never makes the transition from good idea into good movie. Writer/directorDavid Rühmclearly knows hisvampire mythology and elements such as mirrors, garlic and an obsession withcounting wind up playing important roles in the proceedings. These moments inspire smiles here and there, but the film never quite breaks throughwith any big laughs, and strangely, its hook—a vampire seeking therapy from Sigmund Freud—gets pushed tothe wayside after the opening scenes.The result is a film that has a few funnymoments with a lot of dead air in between.This is a shame, as theactors are certainly game, giving the material everything they have andfrequently more than it deserves.“Therapy for a Vampire” is like a 90-minute version of a mediocre“Saturday Night Live” sketch—the kind that makes the final cut only because they needed something to fill time.Advertisement