Forget more cowbell. According to thecelebrated Chinese-American cellist Yo-Yo Ma, what this crazy world needs nowis more pipa (a Chinese version of a lute), more gaita (a bagpipe of Spanishorigin) and definitely more kamancheh (an Iranian bowed string instrument). That is the basic message of MorganNeville’s “The Music of Strangers: Yo-Yo Ma and the Silk Road Ensemble,” whichambitiously tries to capture the evolution of a cultural experiment involving ablend-ship of music from around the globe that began in earnest in 2000. Sofar, the loose collective of 50 or so members of Eurasian backgrounds hasrecorded seven albums (the latest, “Sing Me Home,” was released just this year)and performed for two million people in 33 countries. Advertisement Neville won an Oscar for shining aspotlight on notable back-up singers whose essential though mostly anonymousvoices are heard on countless pop, rock and R&B classics in his 2013documentary “20 Feet From Stardom.” Now he turns his attention to the artistswho joined Ma, and once again proves to be adept in bringingforth the intimate stories behind the music. Where his account stumbles a bit iswhen it takes broader strokes at its subject. It often turns into a kind ofrah-rah, “It’s a Small World” travelogue, filled with glossy “NationalGeographic” views of exotic landmarks and a relentless dancing camera thatspins, rushes forward and pulls back as if engaged in an elaborate waltz. Theperformances themselves range from tentative rehearsals early on in archivalfootage to semi-polished, high-energy concerts. But much like “20 Feet from Stardom,” the docbecomes a grabber whenever it focuses on the immensely skilled and uniqueindividuals who form this melodic melting pot. The sounds they produce might beas diverse as their backgrounds. But they share the common goal of bothpromoting and preserving their heritage while employing art as a buffer againstthe discordant upheavals that have befallen their homelands—a worthymessage repeated so often that it unfortunately becomes as overbearing asan anvil chorus version of ”Kumbaya.” The idea behind the project startedwith the wryly bemused Ma, who felt a growing need to define his purpose in life afterbeing a onetime child prodigy who simply fell into becoming a cellist at age four because he was exceptional at it. As his adult son Nicholas says, “Beinggreat at something doesn’t require a lot of introspection.” Whichexplains Ma’s ultimate goal in attempting to create what Leonard Bernstein oncedeclared a universal musical language: “To find out who I am and how I fit inthe world that I share with seven billion people.” Advertisement Neville soon regularly shifts awayfrom Ma—although he later earns the distinction as probably the first andonly classical cellist to make a fart joke in a movie—to primarily focus onthe lesser-known foreign virtuosos. There is Iranian kamancheh master KayhanKalhor, who is forced to live apart from his beautiful wife because he feelsthreaten by the political situation in his country. Hailing from embattledSyria is clarinetist Kinan Azmeh, who is shown smuggling flutes into Jordan sohe can bring the gift of music of children who are forced to live in sprawlingtent-filled refugee camps. Their laughter as Azmeh leads them in arhythmic rap song is beautiful music of a different kind. But it is two women who steal theshow. First is pipa player Wu Man, a petite Chinese whirlwind who is first seenin a guitar store banging out Black Sabbath’s “Iron Man” on an electric modelof her four-string signature instrument that more frequently emits haunting, hypnotic sounds. Later, she chats with the male members of the Zhang family inthe Shaanxi province of China, who provide the soundtrack for old-school livepuppet shows. A smiling elder member of the clan declares that hiscountry “has the most ancient rock ‘n’ roll,” before proving it by whooping andyelling while banging on antique instruments. Alas, the 21st-centurymarketplace for such entertainment is quickly dying off. Then there is the so-called “JimiHendrix of the gaita," Cristina Pato, who is the first female Galician bagpiperto record a solo album in Spain. From with her rock-star outfits and dyed-greenlocks to the smoldering look on her face when she lustily blows into her pipes,Pato is punk enough to have headlined at CBGB’s and lends a much-neededkick-ass currency to the ensemble. Her mischievous side comes out when shetaunts her mother with the tentacles of a whole octopus that is meant for herown birthday feast during a visit backhome. Advertisement However, it eventually becomesapparent that Neville has perhaps bitten off more than he and his audience canpossibly consume in 90 minutes. Topics such as the criticism thatthe Silk Road Ensemble engages in a brand of  “cultural tourism”—diluting rather than highlighting its multiple influences—are mentioned but notdealt with in depth. And some memorable contributors, such as the nimble youngman who performs a hip-hop ballet in several scenes to Ma’s haunting renditionof Saint-Saëns’ “The Swan,” doesn’t even get his name flashed on the screen. Whatever the flaws, “The Music ofStrangers” does provide enough enticements to make it worth a sit, if only tosee Mr. Rogers greet Ma in an old TV clip. As Pato notes, in order to keep thepast alive in the present, “you have to let it grow.” Clearly, this UnitedNations of jam bands has planted more than enough seeds to nurture astill-thriving venture.