The threat of a comedy lurks around corners in "Tikkun," Avishai Sivan's startling secondfeature about death, guilt and bodies housing devout souls. It draws its titlefrom a Hebrew word meaning “fixing” or “rectification,” the sameconcept that marks the literary idea of comedy: things were fine, they get broken,and then when they get fixed they're better than they were before. Certainscenes—of an Orthodox Jewish man in a car full of drunk men, of a man runningdown a beach at midnight, of a sleeping student sprawled on his desk in a roomfull of snickering companions—smack of the absurd. Also, it starts with cows,and cows are always funny. Advertisement But in this story of rectification, shot in ominous blackand white, cosmic order trumps individual happiness. "Tikkun" is the sort of film that divides audiences, with dialoguethat appears only sporadically and feels ripped from the pages of an esotericreligious text, and a few images that test the limits of even the most jadedaudience. Yet transgressive, button-pushing cinema works best when it's inservice of the whole, and "Tikkun" juxtaposesshock with long stillness, a long day's circuitous journey into eternalnight. Haim-Aaron (Aharon Traitel, a first-time actor raised in aconservative Hasidic community) is an Orthodox yeshiva student so devoted tohis studies that his body is shutting down. He remains at his desk late, scribbling in his notebook with a nub of a pencil. He drops hisprayer boxes on the floor and, as an act of repentance, fasts from food anddrink, growing weak. One day he tries to get into the shower athome, but the water doesn't seem to be working. Standing naked in the shower,he becomes aroused—and just as he's about to give in to temptation, the watercomes on full blast. The shock knocks him down and stops his heart. Haim-Aaron's parents—a kosher butcher (Khalifa Natour),hence the cows, and his wife (Riki Blich) call the paramedics, who try for 40 minutes to revive him. They fail. Haim-Aaron is declared dead. But thenhis father manages to succeed, and when Haim-Aaron returns home after astay in the hospital, his family greets him with cake, drawings, and—in thecase of his little brother—a tooth. But soon it becomes clear that something happened toHaim-Aaron: he no longer needs glasses, for one. His personality seems to havechanged. He can't sleep at night. He takes to wandering the streets andhitchhiking all night, sleeping on his desk at the yeshiva during the day. Hedeclares he won't eat meat anymore. His parents and teachers aren't sure whatto make of him; one night, his father dreams that a crocodile swims up throughthe toilet and tells him that a great affliction has come upon him forthwarting God's plan. Then he begins to have visions of killing his son. Advertisement In some ways "Tikkun" isa story familiar to anyone who grew up in a restrictive world, especially areligious one: the tortured discovery of your body and its desires that fly inthe face of what you've been taught is right. Often this anxiety works itselfout in the many horror films that tap into an adolescent fear—sex brings death,or sex is a sort of soul-death. That renders sexual desire aharbinger of death, and sexual curiosity not a natural part of humandevelopment, but a temptation that taints the soul. The rift between body and mindseems uncrossable. In "Tikkun," as inmany deeply conservative environments, that temptation takes its form in themost mundane of ways. Haim-Aaron seems aroused by the mere sight of a woman. Hefingers a cut of meat in the refrigerator suggestively, seemingly unable toresist. At one point, Haim-Aaron asks a teacher to affirm that God gavethem their bodies, and that means they must worship God through their bodies.When he affirms, Haim-Aaron says, “I hate my body.” “So you hateGod,” is the shocked reply. “No,” Haim-Aaron says. “I love God.” "Tikkun"forms astriking diptych with "Ida," anotherblack-and-white film about venturing beyond the walls of one's tradition whenfaced with death. That the two are shot in monochrome serves only to heightenthe sense of either/or as well as the many shades of grey that any person,regardless of beliefs, encounters in maturity. To suggest either of these filmsis “anti-religion” is to miss the point: they're more properlyanti-bifurcation, critical of allideologies that privilege mind over body—or, interestingly enough, body overmind. To unite the two after being so long divided, whether by Enlightenmentrationality or religious fundamentalism, is what's dangerous. The collision canprove deadly. In any case, Sivan's conclusion about this sort of orthodoxyisn't rosy. Near the end of the film, Haim-Aaron finds himself drawn to thelifeless body of a woman the same way he encountered the refrigerated cut ofmeat. His piety doesn't prevail. But his God, who raises the dead, heals thesick, and ordains the way of kosher butchery, sure seems to. Advertisement