In his best performances,Lou Diamond Phillipsconveys alow-simmering anger just below the surface. His winning smile conceals contemptthat his eyes give away.As early rock-and-roller Ritchie Valens in “     La Bamba    ”(1987), the role that propelled him to brief stardom but an enduring career, hechannels this inner resentment into an aggressive performance of Lieber andStoller’s “     Framed    .”“I knew I was a victim/of someone's evil plan/When astool-pigeon walked in and says, 'That's your man!'" he snarls whilebanging out nasty bar chords on a cheap guitar as a barroom brawl breaks out. “I was framed/Framed, I was blamed.”Advertisement Phillips’ latest turn in “The Night Stalker” has himplaying Richard Ramirez long after the serial killer’s mid-1980s reign ofterror where he crept into suburban homes and raped and killed the inhabitants,often leaving behind pentagrams drawn in blood or lipstick. Playing aonce-imposing figure now declawed by cancer and confined to San Quentin’s deathrow, Phillips turns his signature hostility on himself by banging his head onhis cell door until blood runs down his face in the movie’s opening scene. “The Night Stalker” is coming to us on Lifetime onSunday June 12 at 9 p.m., and will no doubt capitalize on the current appetite for true crime drummed up by the success of “The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story.” While “The Night Stalker’s” budget doesn’t afford it the slickness of “American Crime Story,” the movie still strives for a multi-layered approach to its criminal history during its 89 minute runtime.Bellamy Young(ABC’s “Scandal”), plays Kit, a lawyer sent toSan Quentin to find out if Ramirez murdered some Japanese vacationers at ahotel he used to work at during his younger days in El Paso, before he becameCalifornia’s very real boogieman. She represents a man facing lethal injectionfor the crimes with only a few days left to get a stay-of-execution. While thisplot device is historical fiction, it does have some basis in fact. In 2009, DNAtesting tied Ramirez to the previously unsolved 1984 rape and murder of nine-year-old Mei Leung in San Francisco. Ramirez is known to have committed 14murders, and suspected of several more. Ramirez died from B-cell lymphoma in2013. In the film, as Kit attempts to delve deeper into Ramirez’stwisted psyche, she has to confront what fascinates her about the lithesomefigure. Writer/directorMegan Griffiths(“The Off Hours,” “Lucky Them”) goesthe “Silence of the Lambs” route here, but takes a detour through “Tightrope”(1984), the psychological thriller withClint Eastwoodas a detective who discovershe shares some of the same kinks with the killer he’s stalking. When Ramirez andKit aren’t verbally sparring, their pasts are told through intertwining flashbacks dripping with sweat and despair. Advertisement Phillips, with that ability to radiate anger, is not justconvincing but scary-as-hell as Ramirez even though he spends most of “TheNight Stalker” chained to a desk and coughing up a lung. If anything, this canbe too much of a good thing however, as Phillips overwhelms Young in theirexchanges even more than he should. When Phillips rages about embracing evil andgold being "the metal of Christianity," Young is too often shownstaring blankly in return, making me appreciate whatJodie Fosterbrought toher confrontations withAnthony Hopkinsin "Silence of the Lambs." In the flashback sequences,Chelle Sherrillas a teenage Kitreveals the secrets that her older self is keeping, but Ramirez already knows. WhileAndrew RuizandBenjamin Barrettare both solid as a younger Ramirez, you’re stillthankful when Phillips reestablishes his presence through voiceover narration.It’s Phillips' brooding intensity that draws you into the film, and will haveyou locking your back windows when it's over. It’s hard not to see “La Bamba” and “The Night Stalker” asbookends to Phillips’ career. Both Valens and Ramirez were Los Angeles CountyChicanos who went by Anglicized names. Ricardo Valenzuela became Ritchie Valensbecause that’s what a Latino had to do to make it big in show biz back in the whitebread '50s. Ricardo Leyva Muñoz Ramírez went by Richard, and was even called Ritchieby his friends. In both films, Phillips plays outcasts in Los Angeles’suburban sprawl who achieve their own kind of stardom. In “La Bamba,” the samehigh school kids who didn’t even notice Valens earlier in the movie, clamor forhis autograph after seeing him on “American Bandstand.” With his long hair andprofessed Santanism, Ramirez takes on the trappings of a rock star of a laterera, even mesmerizing his own flock of prison house groupies who mob the SanQuentin waiting area for their moment with him. Advertisement “Most come once tosee what it’s like to be so close to evil,” Ramirez tells Kit with visibledisgust. “They’re hobbyists.” Valens died when he was barely 18 in the same 1959 planecrash that also took the lives of Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper, a tragedythat caps off “La Bamba” with scenes of San Fernando High School kids cryingtheir eyes out andEsai Moralesrunning up a hill yelling, “Ritchie!” A quartercentury later, Ramirez terrorized that same San Fernando Valley where Valenshailed from. Ramirez was originally known as “The Valley Intruder” before hekilled in San Francisco and was re-christened the Night Stalker by themuckrakers at theLos Angeles Herald-Examiner. Valens died tragically. Ramirez’s death came as a relief. Byplaying both men, Phillips brings his career to a full circle, drawn in blood.