Taking on anovel that’s already been adapted by two of the greatest filmmakers of all timeshould give any contemporary director pause, you would think. But BenoîtJacquot shows no signs of intimidation in his “Diary of a Chambermaid,” whichhe and his co-scenarist,Hélène Zimmer, adapted fromOctave Mirbeau’santi-bourgeois novel of 1900. The bookwas adapted to the cinema in 1946 America, by the great French director JeanRenoir. (The first film version was made in Russia in 1916.) Necessarilyinhibited by Hollywood censorship of the time, Renoir rendered a sort of anticburlesque of the source material, a highly ironic tale of a chambermaid withsocial-climbing aspirations who duels with her shifting concepts of integrityas she makes her plays.Paulette Goddardessayed an unusually sassy Celestine.In 1964, withJeanne Moreauin the lead role, Luis Buñuel made a sardonic andsurreal vision. For this film, Jacquot, always a remarkably assured filmmaker(his other pictures include wonderful ‘90s movies such as “A Single Girl,” “Seventh Heaven,”and, more recently, “Farewell My Queen”) expands the source material’s contempt for middle-class hypocrisy into amore expansive misanthropy. But because he (and, of course, his cast) makes hispeople so engaging, the cynicism feels strangely embracing. AdvertisementLéa Seydoux(“Blue Is the Warmest Color,” “Spectre,” and also Jacquot’s “Farewell”) playsCélestine here, and when we first see her, in conference with a Parisianoverseer who’s trying to place her in a good position, the character is sullen,puffy-eyed. The sometimes abrupt flashback sequences, detailing incidents fromother job situations, give us a clear picture of why she’s fatigued, indeedmore than fatigued. Dispatched to the French countryside, she’s immediatelyturned off by her new mistress, Madame Lanlaire (Clotilde Mollet). Madame starts going on aboutall the precious things she’s got on her mantle and stops in the hallway toramble on about a clock, one that, if it needs repair, has to be sent toLondon. “Do you send your cracked chamber pot to London, too?” Célestine asks,barely under her breath. Monsieur Lanlaire (Hervé Pierre), a memorably bonkers shoe fetishistin the Buñuel movie, is here just an ineffectual would-be letch. MonsieurJoseph, the master of the stable, on the other hand, is a burnt-umber vision ofmasculinity, played by contemporary French cinema’s default masculinearchetype,Vincent Lindon. Monsieur Joseph also turns out to be an avidanti-Semite, one whose repellent views are all the more appalling for beingpronounced in quiet, even tones. ThatCélestine isn’t much bothered by this is a potent, disquieting reminder that ataste for “bad boys” isn’t always an endearing quality. It’s hard to know,though, just what Célestine’s motivations are. She directly conveys more of herown point of view about 30 minutes into the film, when she is heard in voiceover,going over how she might poison her employers, and ultimately rejecting theidea. In the meantime, in a series of handsomely mounted and beautifully judgedscenes, the viewer is shown the rough absurdities of Célestine’s present, as ina scene where she visits an eccentric neighbor and learns in a most unpleasantway that he’s not someone to be teased about what he will or will not eat. Herpast, too, is unsettling. She is charged with looking after a young man withtuberculosis, and naturally he falls in love with her, with predictablydisastrous but not in themselves predictable results. It’s duringthis sequence that Célestine has a line of dialogue that is the key to thewhole film. Criticizing her charge Georges (Vincent Lacoste, who here looks abit like a youngKeith Gordon) for overexerting himself, she says “You enjoymaking yourself ill.” In this movie, that’s the nutshell definition of thehuman condition. The anti-bourgeois indignation of Mirbeau’s vision is expandedin this film, which can be read as expressing a nearly entirely dismissiveskepticism of progressive notions of “empowerment.” This will likely make itunpopular in certain circles. But the immediate effect Jacquot achieves, withquiet droll and some considerable dread, is bracing. Advertisement