“We talk about OJ as though the story is OJ. The story is OJAND US.”—Celia Farber Even in this era of “Peak TV,” it’s rare to see something asessential and momentous as ESPN’s “OJ: Made in America,” which played film festivals earlier this year and starts thisSaturday, June 11th, and runs all of next week under the network’s “30For 30” brand.Ezra Edelman’s stunningly ambitious, eight-hour documentary is amasterpiece, a refined piece of investigative journalism that places thesubject it illuminates into the broader context of the end of the 20thcentury. You may think you know everything about The Trial of the Century,especially if you watched FX’s excellent “The People vs. OJ Simpson: American Crime Story,”but “OJ: Made in America” not only fills in details about the case butoffers background and commentary that you’ve never heard before. It is anexamination of race, domestic abuse, celebrity, civil rights, the LAPD, thelegal process and murder over the last fifty years, using the OJ Simpson storyas a way to refract society. Its length may seem daunting, but I would havewatched it for another eight hours and will almost certainly watch it again beforethe summer is over. It’s that good. Advertisement As broadcast, “OJ: Made in America” is split up into five parts.The first part plays like a relatively straightforward “30 For 30,” the ESPNbrand that has delivered fantastic sports documentary filmmaking. It focuses onthe rise of OJ Simpson, becoming a household name at USC, where he won theHeisman Trophy in 1968. Edelman very carefully places the rise of Simpsonagainst the backdrop of what was happening to the other black sports figures atthe time. He includes footage ofMuhammad Alirefusing to go to Vietnam andTommie Smith and John Carlos raising their fists in protest at the 1968Olympics. OJ was a “safe” black athlete, and even intercuts footage of RFKannouncing the death of Martin Luther King with Simpson joiningBob Hopeonstage as the host congratulates USC on not having “had a riot, a demonstration,or even a sit-in.” While black people were trying to change the world, OJSimpson went in another direction, and he very verbally and consciously did so,using that acceptance to become the first black spokesman for severalcompanies. As someone says, “OJ Simpson was the counter-revolutionary athlete.”The key here is that OJ Simpson was already writing a character, respondingmore to how people saw him than anything else. If “OJ: Made in America” wasjustpart one, it would be afascinating, must-see examination of how celebrity and race worked together inthe late ‘60s and ‘70s. The second part of “OJ: Made in America” chronicles theinstantly-tumultuous relationship between OJ andNicole Brown. A friend saysthat her pants were ripped after her first date with OJ and that she said that “hegot a little rough.” At this point, Edelman pivots to a story of how celebritycan let people get away with domestic abuse, while also focusing on the stateof race relations in Los Angeles in the ‘80s and ‘90s. As the relationshipbetween the Los Angeles Police Department and minorities in L.A. continued toheat up, Rodney King became the international example of the violence cops wereinflicting on black people, and, eventually and more importantly, injustice. Ifyou’re wondering how or why Rodney King’s beating plays a role in “OJ: Made inAmerica,” know that one of the jurors in Simpson’s trial later states that shelet OJ go as revenge for Rodney King. And she’s convinced others did as well. Racistcops—like those that beat Rodney King and Mark Fuhrman, who the defense arguedframed OJ Simpson—needed to know those days were over. What’s so incredibleabout “OJ: Made in America” is how Edelman and his team basically define thefoundation of what would come in the trial. They don’t jump into the “salaciousdetails.” Nothing as major as the story of OJ Simpson happens in a vacuum. Howdid OJ get there? How did Nicole get there? How did Mark Fuhrman, Chris Dardenand Johnnie Cochran get there? How did we all get there? Of course, the third and fourth part of “OJ: Made in America” isdevoted to the trial, and they do an incredible job of distilling it to essential beats, with notable contributions by Marcia Clark, Gil Garcetti, twojurors and several witnesses, including some of OJ Simpson’s friends, all ofwhom either at that point or today admit that he did it. The details of theentire piece are what elevate it—eyewitness accounts of the Bronco chase fromthe cops who essentially accompanied a man with a murder charge pending to hishome (think about that in terms of race and celebrity and ask yourself if theywouldn’t have just shot out the tires of every other black man in L.A.). Thecops that day went into OJ’s house and saw only pictures of him on the walls.No Nicole. No kids. So, they knew they could appeal to his ego to stop him fromkilling himself in that Bronco in his own driveway, where he had a gun underhis chin. Advertisement These kind of “you are there” details are riveting, but that's not meant to imply that this is merely a compendium of little-known facts. What really separates "OJ: Made in America," other than its investigative spirit, is the brilliant connections Edelman and his team make through editing. We hear a fascinating story about friends trying to play a prank on a young OJ Simpson and Al "AC" Cowlings in which they pulled a starter pistol and AC jumped to protect his best friend. Of course, cut to the Bronco chase, in which AC could have been the last man to see OJ alive if Simpson had done what he intended at several points that day. The attention to detail and brilliant documentary construction carries over to the case as well, where mistakes were made from the very beginning, everywhere but the defense. Edelman paints a portrait of a judge with little control (for no logical reason, he let them walk the jury through Rockingham, where Simpson's team had replaced photos of Juice with his white friends with only black people and African art) and a prosecution team always at least a few steps behind not just their opponents but the world. They didn't comprehend the "bigger picture" of fame and race. Here’sjust one of the breathtaking stats in terms of the power of celebrity: 75% ofthe jurors in the questioning period thought that OJ Simpson was unlikely to doit because he had played football at USC. Marcia Clark drastically overestimatedher likability with black women and ended up with eight on her jury. And OJSimpson wasn’t your typical defendant. He knew exactly how to play things. Hewas a part of his defense team. He even knew to stop taking his arthritismedicine—which would swell up his hands—two weeks before the testimony aboutthe gloves, just in case Chris Darden would ask him to try them on. And we allknow what happened there. An hour into part four, there’s a detailed recounting ofexactly what happened the night that Nicole Brown and Ron Goldman died, withbrutal crime scene photos. The horror and violence of that night is jawdroppingand as terrifying as any horror movie. The doc gets graphic, and I started toget emotional not just because of the impact of the crime but because Irealized I didn’t know these details before. I interned at a news stationduring the original case and I was as enraptured with the story as anyone butthe actual horror of the crime was distracted by conspiracy theories and theblinding light of fame. Advertisement The final part of “OJ: Made in America” is the only one in whichI can find the slightest flaw in that I wish it was a bit longer. After beingacquitted, OJ Simpson lost his exalted status. He was no longer allowed in thecountry clubs at which he was formerly the only black member. He was yelled at everywherehe went, essentially descended into a life of drugs and violence, whichwould result in his conviction for armed robbery. But he wasalwaysobsessed with his image. There’san incredible scene in which OJ is taking down the flag at Rockingham, gettingemotional and then pushing the camera away as if a paparazzi had snuck ontothe grounds. It was staged. Any footage of OJ at the time could be sold to TMZfor a pretty penny and Simpson was making money with a buddy, even as his worldwas crashing around him. Whether he was running for a record, leaping throughan airport for Hertz, making sure Nicole knew that she was his property orgetting angry enough to kill, it was always about OJ and only OJ. To understandOJ, we have to understand how much of his life was influenced by what he showedus in the world of celebrity and how we responded to it as a society. “OJ: Madein America” should be a conversation-starter, a way to discuss what happened inthe ‘80s and ‘90s in terms of race and celebrity and what it says about today.OJ’s story may be over. Ours is not.