What scares you? It’s pretty easy to see what scares JamesWan. The director’s sense of cinematic fear was clearly formed by the horrorfilms of the ‘70s and ‘80s, his work often recalling hits of the era like “TheOmen” and “Poltergeist.” In many ways, “The Conjuring 2” is the “ultimateJames Wanfilm,” allowing the filmmaker to play with styles of the era in theretelling of one of its most notable paranormal activities: the notoriousEnfield poltergeist. Being able to tie the “true story” behind another horrorclassic from his youth to this one (“The Amityville Horror”) only sweetens thedeal. Wan is a kid in a haunted candy store with “The Conjuring 2” andhis talent (and that of his team) make this kind of ride enjoyable, even if itdoesn’t have the visceral, confident impact of the original. Advertisement “The Conjuring 2” opens with notorious ghostbusters Ed(Patrick Wilson) and Lorraine Warren (Vera Farmiga) investigating the aftermathof the murders that became known as “The Amityville Horror.” Lorrainehas a unique ability to communicate with supernatural beings and has been asked to confirm that what happened at Amityville was demonic innature and not just a homicidal patriarch. While sitting around a table in the DeFeo dining room, Lorraine has an out-of-body experience that allows her tosee the shotgun murders that took place in the house and a “Demon Nun” (BonnieAarons), which is literally how the recurring vision is listed in the credits,who will haunt Lorraine throughout the film, and issue a warning that Ed’s daysare numbered. After the Amityville prologue, the action jumps to Enfield,England (we know we’re in England because Wan, never a particularly subtledirector, uses “London Calling” on the soundtrack, an obvious choice more playful than annoying). We meet the Hodgson family, led by single motherPeggy (Frances O’Connor) and including four children. One of the girls isJanet (Madison Wolfe), and she starts to have much bigger problems at home than when she was caught smoking by her teacher. It begins with sleepwalking, progresses to sounds in themiddle of the night, and ultimately ends up in possession. A man named BillWilkins (Bob Adrian) seems to have the ability to take over the poor girl’s body,even speaking through her, resulting in some infamous recordings in which ayoung girl sounds decidedly like an old man. And that's nowhere near as scary as the crosses that turn upside down or the visions of the "Crooked Man." The local authorities get in touchwith the Warrens, who make the trip to England to determine whether or not theHodgsons are faking the haunting or stop them from becoming the nextAmityville. Children in jeopardy, a put-upon mother, an old house. Sound familiar? It should. Wan and his screenwriters verypurposefully hit many of the same beats as the first film, presenting us with aset-up that often feels too similar, and disappoints by comparison because O’Connor’scharacter isn’t given nearly the depth ofLili Taylor’s in the original. Taylor’sunderrated work in that film helped ground the fear tactics in something real.The characters in “The Conjuring 2” are secondary, introduced with minordefinition (mom worries about money, one of the boys stutters, etc.) and thenput-upon enough that the Warrens have to save the day. Despite very solid workby Wolfe to capture the fear of a girl who has no idea what’s going on (as wellas to be truly scary when she needs to be), the characters in “The Conjuring 2”don’t resonate, so we don’t care as much about what happens to them. Advertisement Which is not to say that Wan has entirely lost his abilityto scare us. Working with ace cinematographerDon Burgess(a regularcollaborator ofRobert Zemeckison everything from “Forrest Gump,” for which hewon an Oscar, to “Flight”), Wan and his team have an incredible ability toproduce fear with camera tricks and forced perspective. They’ll start with ashot of a room, zoom in on a face, and then quick-zoom out to reveal somethingcrucial has changed. They avoid traditional, jump-scare edits, knowing that it’smuch scarier to stay in one shot as the normal world becomes terrifying around and in it. Andthey love playing supernatural POV (that floating camera above the action in the house) and with what they allow us to see. There’s a fantastic scene inwhich Janet may or may not be possessed by Bill in the background but Wan andBurgess stay tight on Ed Warren’s face, allowing our imaginationsto work on what’s going on behind him. At its best, Wan’s incredible cameraskills blend with his playfulness—the sound of someone (or something) whistling“This Old Man,” a fire engine toy moving on its own, a dog bell that everymodern horror viewer knows will eventually signal menace—to create the kind ofthrill ride the director is so clearly trying to replicate. He didn’t just makea film set in the ‘70s, he employs tricks of the era cinematically, recalling movies like “The Omen” and “The Shining," but with a modern eye. “The Conjuring 2” doesn’t live up to the films that inspiredit (or the original) not because of the filmmaking laziness we so often see inhorror (especially sequels), but almost because Wan and company are having too muchfun to streamline their film. The movie runs amazingly long, and could have lost atleast 15 minutes to make for a tighter, scarier ride. At times, the non-stophaunting becomes numbing, lessening its ability to scare. The commitment by Wanand his team—and Farmiga and Wilson, who completely devote themselves to theirsometimes-goofy roles—makes the ride worth taking, but "The Conjuring 2" can be too recognizable to get under our skin. It is an incredibly robust piece of filmmaking on a technical level, andthat alone will be enough for many Wan fans (and those of us exhausted byHollywood horror films that often show no filmmaking prowess at all), butghost stories don’t have the same impact the second time you hear them. Even the scary ones.