About 25 years ago I met a fine artist, a painter, on atrain trip to visit a mutual friend. We discussed our respective professions/enthusiasms,and she told me that as a rule she hated movies about painters because theywere almost uniformly false—to the point of being corny—in their depiction ofthe act of painting. One exception, she said, was the then-recent “Life Lessons,”the Martin-Scorsese-directed episode of the 1989 “New York Stories,” in whichNick Nolteplayed an abstract painter. That movie got it, she said. I was gladto hear it, as I enjoyed the movie too, but I also said that as someone who hadlittle clue about how painting was actually accomplished, I could enjoyVincente Minnelli’s “Lust For Life” regardless. Advertisement Writers have less of a hard time with movies about writers,because the act of writing is something that’s somewhat pointless to depictvisually, so you kind of can’t go wrong. But there’s also a kind of inherentfutility in using a visual medium to convey the interior machinations of thecreative act. It’s helpful, then, in concocting movies about writers, to chooseor create writers who are oversized personalities, men and women who do a lotmore than spend time hunched over a desk wrestling with their own thoughts. Themovie “Genius,” directed byMichael Grandagefrom a script byJohn Logan, doesnot lack for those. The central figure, though, is not a writer but an editor,the real-life Maxwell Perkins, a man whose most pronounced eccentricity, itseems, involved almost never taking his hat off. “Genius” is the story of bookman Perkins, friend and collaborator to the likes ofErnest Hemingwayand F. ScottFitzgerald, who play significant roles here, and the way Perkins took on andtamed the fiery poetic work of North-Carolina-born visionary (or blowhard,depending on which literary critic you consult) Thomas Wolfe. Perkins isplayed with reserve, hidden warmth, and scrupulous intelligence byColin Firth,while Wolfe’s role goes toJude Law, who is more than well suited to declaimand thunder and be completely madly unreasonable in time-tested crazed-geniusstyle. Perkins spends his days in the very woody offices of Scribner’s,red-penciling such future masterpieces as ”A Farewell To Arms.” In the eveninghe takes the train home to a handsome secluded home where wait his wife andfive lovely, literate daughters. One day his office receives a ragged manuscriptthat’s more stack than sheaf. “O Lost,” it is titled, and the words that followthat title, about the “lost wandering lonely souls,” somehow grip the taciturnPerkins. When Wolfe drops in at Perkins’ office, the writer is so cluelesslyeffusive that Perkins can barely get a word in edgewise, not even to tell himthat Scribner’s is accepting the oft-rejected novel. The movie then spends alittle while simulating how writer and editor honed down the stack to createwhat would come to be called “Look Homeward, Angel.” If you haveany feel for writing, and I suppose if you particularly have any feel forWolfe’s writing, you’ll find the exchanges between editor and authorexhilarating. Logan’s script, based on A. Scott Berg’s biography of Perkins, isinvested in the craft of words like few other movies nowadays, even those ostensibly aboutwriters. And if you have no particular concern forwriting, the emotional drama is not insignificant.Nicole Kidmanplays AlineBernstein, a married woman who’s Wolfe’s lover and unofficial patron, and herscorn upon seeing her place in Wolfe’s life become supplanted on account ofPerkins’ presence commands attention. As for Perkins, Wolfe starts looking likethe son he and wife Louise (Laura Linney) very clearly tried for but never had.As success goes to Wolfe’s head, though, Perkins gets inklings that he may havecreated an ego monster, while Wolfe himself insists that Perkins loosen up andfollow him to the places where he finds “the dark rhythms that inspire me.” Asfor Hemingway (Dominic West) and Fitzgerald (Guy Pearce), they make their concern and/or disapproval knownfrom the sidelines. Advertisement It could bethat I see so many dumb movies these days that I’m inclined to cut a lot ofslack for one of conspicuous intelligence, but I greatly enjoyed “Genius.” Tothe extent that it’s made me interested in checking out more Wolfe, who I’veavoided like the plague since not enjoying his dialect short story “Only TheDead Know Brooklyn.” I’m not theonly one who was at least slightly taken aback, though, by a persistent quirkin the movie’s casting, which is that not one of the Lions of AmericanLiterature in this picture was played by, well, an American. Firth is British,Law is British, Dominic West is British, Guy Pearce is Australian and so is Nicole Kidman. “What about Zelda Fitzgerald,you sexist?” I can hear somebody saying. Well, yeah. She IS depicted in themovie also. ByVanessa Kirby. A British actor.They all dotheir jobs pretty splendidly though so I can’t really complain. But I didnotice. As well you might, too.