Director and writer LeenaYadav set “Parched“ in a slightly fictionalized world: the characters livein a dusty invented rural village called Ujhaas, modeled on similar villages innorthwestern India, and they speak an invented dialect. But the rest of thedetails—the forced child marriages, the financial difficulties, the spousal andfamilial rape, the physically and emotionally abusive alcoholic husbands—areall drawn from stories that Yadav heard from women in those villages whiletraveling to find a story. “Parched” is a filmmaker’s attempt tounderstand how and why these women continue to live. Advertisement At 32, Rani (TannishthaChatterjee) has been a widow for half her life, and is mortgaging her future topay for a dowry and wedding so her son, Gulab (Riddhi Sen), can have a beautifulwife: Janaki (Lehar Khan), a young girl from a neighboring village. Gulab isbusy falling in with the wrong crowd, a group of young men in the village whofear the changes in the village's women that will come with progress—likeeducation and access to resources—but are mostly interested in whores, booze,and growing into the shoes their fathers left behind. Rani's best friend isLajjo (Radhika Apte), who desperately wishes for a child but can't conceive andis battered nightly by her alcoholic husband Manoj (Mahesh Balraj). Lajjo is also a skilledseamstress, and she and Rani, along with other women, work for a localentrepreneur Kishan (Sumeet Vyas) and are saving for the village to finally geta satellite and television—their first real connection to the outside world.The two women are friends with Bijli (Surveen Chawla, in a particularly strongperformance), a dancer in a touring troupe who performs erotic dances nightlyto cheering crowds of men, and also entertains clients made weak bydesire. The women live in a tightlycontrolled world, hemmed in by tradition, but in their private spaces they talkabout love, sex and their dreams for the future. Life seems like an unendingcycle of hardship punctuated by small bits of happiness. But it all breaks down.On the day of her son's marriage, Rani discovers that Janaki's hair has beencut off, dishonoring her in her village. Manoj's brutality towards Lajjo growsmore fierce. Bijli finds out a new girl might replace her. To tell such extreme storiesis tricky, and sometimes “Parched”—which is ultimately a stirringmelodrama—falls on the side of caricature with its male characters. Every manis a villain, from the elders who scoff at the idea of women having any successall the way down to the young boys. Only one, Kishan, seems even human by thefilm's end, and even he is underdeveloped. The cruelty goes on unabated. Andyet—who knows? Abusive monsters exist everywhere; being raised a culture deeplysteeped in misogyny makes those behaviors acceptable, even marks of masculinity.Still, one has to wonder ifnogoodman can be found. But that doesn't matter allthat much, because the women of “Parched,” especially the three at itscenter, are wonderfully complex: Rani is fully aware of her dark early days asa young wife, during which she was mistreated by both her new husband and hermother-in-law, but reflexively treats Janaki with disdain and even abuse; Lajjochafes under her husband's tyranny, but still lives for his approval; Bijliseems breezily liberated, but can't come up with a way to free herself thatdoesn't require a man. These women are thirsty for everything: forpassion, for love, for sex, for freedom. These conflicts keep the filmconsistently surprising, and—as shot byRussell Carpenter("Titanic")—”Parched” is vibrantly alive, full of color and light andmovement and music. There is sex in this movie, and there is dancing, and thereare vibrant fabrics and foods and fire. It's a dry place, but one ringed withbeauty. Advertisement That Yadav chose to make "Parched" in response to these storiesshows how honestly she wanted to understand their actions, unfathomable to manyWestern minds. And it seems that in drawing Rani, Lajjo, and Bijli as smart,articulate, skillful, successful, and sexy women, she succeeds. A viewer canfume and shake her head, but at the day’s end, the empathy demanded by a cameratrained on a a woman not totally unlike yourself helps you see her as more thanjust a victim of tradition and misplaced machismo. She is a person withdignity, and she demands to be treated as such—even by the Western audiencemember. Interestingly, the film'sfinal scenes are set against the backdrop of a festival, celebrating the day onwhich a lord and a goddess defeated the forces of evil and lies,replacing them with truth. The celebrations—which involve burning arepresentation of the villains in effigy—are intercut with scenes of radicalliberation for Rani, Lajjo, and Bijli. Even Yadav, in trying to understand thewomen who live these lives with seeming willing resignation to their fate,couldn't fathom the idea of leaving them in that world. She sets them free.Whether that's a failure of imagination on her part or a success depends onyour point of view.