Jon Wattsmade waves at the 2015 Sundance Film Festival withhis throwback thriller “Cop Car” getting enough attention that he was given aGolden Ticket to join Club MCU by directing 2017’s “Spider-Man: Homecoming.”Interestingly, Watts had another film in the can that had never been released,2014’s “Clown,” produced byEli Roth, and just this week is getting a smalltheatrical and VOD release. Why was “Clown” buried? Is it an example of a filmthat is only being seen because of its creator’s subsequent fame and shouldhave been left in a shallow cinema grave? Or is it evidence of the talentthat Watts would later show on a larger stage? The answer is somewhere inbetween. While “Clown” is far from the disastrous misfire that typically stainsVOD horror movies (most range from awful to “I never want to see a movie again”),it comes apart about halfway through, losing a very difficult tonal balance.Having said that, there’s more to like here than the studio burial would haveyou believe. Advertisement It’s actually most likely that the studio is semi-burying “Clown” (and didn't screen it for critics) because they’re a little scared of it. While it’s not as all-out gory as someof the films also produced by Eli Roth, it hinges on a no-no even in horrorcinema—the violent, bloody, sometimes cannibalistic death of children. Horror fans will watch adults, especially morallycorrupt ones, get drawn and quartered, but putting kids in jeopardy isgenerally considered a bridge too far. Seeing kids eaten by a killer clown?Kind of hard to put into a trailer. Long before he’s devouring rugrats, Kent (Andy Powers) is anaverage family man. When a clown doesn’t show up for his son’s birthday party,he finds an old suit in a house he’s trying to sell in his role as arealtor. The party goes off without a hitch but he falls asleep on the couch inhis full clown gear. The next day, he notices that the red rubber nose won’tcome off and the wig seems to have fused with his real hair. When he tries toget the suit off, even with a handsaw, he fails. As if spending the rest ofyour life looking like a vagabond Ronald McDonald isn’t bad enough, Kent notices that hehas an new taste for the blood of children. A man (Peter Stormare, in full Stormare Mode) witha history with the clown suit tells Kent and his wife (an ineffectiveLaura Allen) that decapitationis the only answer before the demon in the suit takes over Kent completely. The first act of “Clown” works because it lays a lot of itsarc at the feet of a totally-committed performance by Powers. To pull off thestory of a man who can’t get out of a clown suit requires “Nicolas CageinVampire’s Kiss” levels of commitment and Powers is completely in for the ride.Watts’ tone is also playful in this first act, such as when Kent tries to blowhis brains out and ends up with a rainbow spray on the wall. (Spoiler: It doesn’twork.) The problem with “Clown” is that it eventually tries to getserious and loses its way in two key places. First, there’s kind of a grossscene in which a bully gets his comeuppance in a most grotesque way that doesn’twork tonally (and when kid death doesn’t work tonally, itreallydoesn’t work). More long-term, the final act basically turnsKent into a child-eating demon, taking Powers out of the film as an actor andforcing Allen to do a lot of heavy emoting to try andsave her husband. It’s around here that one starts adding up the film’s missedopportunities as well. It doesn’t really provide any truly frightening “scaryclown” imagery to add to that crowded subgenre and it takes no opportunities tobecome something deeper in terms of commentary on fatherhood, masculinity, evenchildhood icons, etc. It’s really just a “killer clown movie.” One has to giveWatts and Powers credit for really going for it and not pulling back from theirdisturbing concept, but that credit runs out before the movie is over. Advertisement