Nick Wernham’s “No Stranger Than Love” starts offpromisingly, bouncing through with performances from the incredibly likableAlison BrieandColin Hanks. Brie plays Lucy Sherrington, the woman thateveryone pines after in a small American town. This is established in a relatively clever series of openingscenes, in which the principal at the school at which she works, one of herstudents, even the garbage collectors on her street all profess theirinfatuation with her. And yet Lucy remains alone—voted the queen of the townfair every year but without a partner in her bed. That is until the night thatCoach Clint Coburn (Hanks) decides he’s finally going to act on the sexualchemistry between the two of them, and cheat on his wife with Lucy.As the two stand in front of each other in Lucy’s living room, Clint professeshis love for Lucy. And a giant black hole opens up in the floor and sucks inCoach C. Advertisement From his new position in Lucy’s black hole—from which he cancommunicate with the world above but sees only darkness—Clint understandablypanics. At first, he doesn’t want the rest of the town to know for fear thatthey’ll figure out why he was at Lucy’s house in the first place. So Lucy hasto sneak around town to try and find rope with which to extricate poor Clint.While doing so, she crosses paths with a nefarious-looking (sunglasses and darkclothes to offset against a notably bright small-town America color scheme)fellow named Rydell Whyte (Justin Chatwin), who happens to be looking for Clinthimself. Why does Rydell want Clint? How will they get him out of the hole?What does this all mean? The sad answer is not a lot. “No Stranger Than Love” feelslike it probably began life as a one-act play, set almost entirely in Lucy’sliving room and with a small cast of characters. It has that feeling of a piecethat needed a bit more workshopping to discern its purpose and, like a lot ofindependent cinema that feels like it has theatrical origins, never becomesconvincingly cinematic. The charm of its first act dissipates before thehalfway mark. As Lucy is feeding rope into the hole in her floor, I realized itwas a metaphor for the film, trying to grab onto something. Thematic ideas planted in the first act (for example, how adoration can lead to abuse ofpower) are discarded just as everyone tries to figure out the purpose of thehole and the fact that Clint was planning to cheat on his wife becomes moreimportant than anything substantial. The film is a wasted opportunity to explore its concept's depth and giveBrie (a talentedcomedienne with perfect timing on NBC's "Community")a meaty character toplay with. And while the first act unfolded as a commentary about the pedestal on which thetownspeople had put Lucy, I waited for writer     Steve Adams    to subvert thatthrough Lucy’s character. Sadly, he never does. Yes, a few townspeople learnthat Lucy is more complex than they thought, but perhaps the fatal flaw of “NoStranger Than Love” is that Adams and Wernham felt the need to replace one maleparamour for Clint with another in Rydell. They’ve made a movie about howpeople shouldn’t be defined by what others think of them, but itscentralcharacter is largely defined by the men around her, from first frame tolast.Advertisement