After more than a decade away, a man returns to hisformer home outside a village in Colombia in order to help his estranged familyin their time of need. He meets the daughter-in-law he'd only heard about, reunites with his ex-wife, and seems a bit surprised at the sight of the five-year-old boy who answers the door and asks the older man if he's hisgrandfather. We first see Alfonso (Haimer Leal) from a considerabledistance, slowly walking toward the camera on a dirt road surrounded by stalksof sugarcane. He seems to come as from the ether. Before we can get a glimpseof his face, he disappears in a cloud of dust from a passing truck. Advertisement This is a man whose past and present fit comfortablyinside the small suitcase he has owned for decades. Where this man hasbeen, what he has been doing, and why he has been out of contact with hisfamily for all these years are, perhaps, vital questions. They don't matter,though, in these first moments of introduction and reunion—or indeed for mostof the film. What does matter is that the man is here for his family now. Writer/director César Augusto Acevedo's "Land andShade" is a film of uncommon restraint and considerable compassion. Itpresents a seemingly helpless situation and focuses on the tiny, fleetingmoments of regret, resentment, reconciliation, hope, loyalty and love withinand between these characters. Through those moments, a precise, detailed picture ofthis particular family forms. There's a degree of external conflict here, mostlyto do with a corrupt farming industry and a workers' strike, but it's kept to aminimum. The vast majority of the story's conflict is in the way the charactersreact to their circumstances. Under those circumstances, the bonds between this family aretenuous, although a significant portion of that fragility is on account of thebonds themselves. Each character understands that their relationships are an essential parts of their lives. As with any family, thereare various relationships within this unit—between fathers and sons, mothersand sons, wives and husbands. With financial and physical strains taking theirtoll, it's inevitable that a character's efforts to preserve one relationshipwill come at the cost of harming another. The film's conflict is primarily about the impossibletask of prioritizing these connections. How, for example, can a man possiblydecide between his roles as a son, to a mother who already has been abandonedand who relies upon him for the necessities of living, and as a husband, to awife who wants to leave her husband's childhood home because she is convincedthere is nothing there for her own family? How can a woman choose betweenstaying with her sick husband and leaving him to die in order to provide herson with a better chance at life? Advertisement Gerardo (Edison Raigosa) is a son, a husband and a father.He is slowly but surely succumbing to a potentially fatal respiratory illness.His mother Alicia (Hilda Ruiz) refuses to leave her home in the middle of theacres of sugarcane, because this place is where she has made her life. His wifeEsperanza (Marleyda Soto) knows that this place will offer nothing for thefuture of their son Manuel (José Felipe Cárdenas). She also knows that the constant burning of the cane,which results in a nightly rain of ash upon the family's home, is killing herhusband. Meanwhile, Alfonso takes to doing the household chores and tending toManuel. He may have abandoned his family, but he is, as Esperanza points out, agood man who has made mistakes. All of these characters have erred to oneextent or another, but there is no blame to be passed to any of them. There also are no easy answers to the scenario Acevedohas established. Gerardo, like his mother, is too stubborn to listen to theobvious—too loyal to and worried about Alicia to even consider leaving her.Everyone is convinced that he will regain his health with bedrest and thewindows of his room closed, to prevent the dangerous ash from filling his lungs. It's the blind conviction of people who are convincedthat nothing bad can befall a loved one, even as all evidence—the way Gerardo'sbreathing gradually becomes raspier and more strained—points to the contrary.It's the same sort of conviction that pits Esperanza, who—with hermother-in-law—has taken over her husband's job of harvesting the crop, againsther co-workers in the sugarcane fields. They haven't been paid in weeks, andthe bosses have plenty of excuses to guarantee payment "tomorrow." The rest of the crew wants to strike. Esperanza worriesthat all of her hard work will be for nothing if the bosses decide thatstriking workers aren't worth paying at all. Acevedo obviously has a politicalpoint to make here, but the argument is so inextricably linked to the family'sstruggles that it never overreaches or preaches. Acevedo and cinematographerMateo Guzmánobserve theseinteractions from a distance and with an almost impassive sense of objectivity.There are long takes with minimal or no camera movements—a tableau of Gerardo'sfamily at his bedside, a static shot from afar of three generations of thefamily enjoying the shared knowledge of birdcalls, a heartfelt embrace in thenight when Esperanza learns that her son's birthday was not ruined on accountof her extended work day, or a simple dolly shot that follows Alfonso teachinghis grandson to fly a kite. The film lingers on these moments. It allows themto breathe and offers us a chance to savor Acevedo's naturalistic approach,which extends from the lighting to the performances. As circumstances worsen and the characters realize thatthey must make certain difficult decisions, the camera gets closer. Acevedo keeps us at a comfortable distance for so long that there's avisceral impact to witnessing the consequences of action and inaction on suchan intimate level. Even as the world literally burns around this family,"Land and Shade" continues to be about those moments of loyalty andlove, albeit with the somber realization of their price. Advertisement