Time will tell ifAndrzej Żuławskihas pulled off the same benevolent magic trick as RaúlRuiz and left his fans one more movie after his passing. Stranger things have happened,and no one welcomed the strange like Żuławski. For now we have only "Cosmos," basedloosely on a novel by     Witold Gombrowicz    , a culmination of the rabble rouser's nearly 50-year career. As usual, it's almost too much cinema for its 103 minutes. Confined to a fewlocations and shaking with ecstasy, possibility and the torment of being alive, "Cosmos" islike absinthe distilled secretly in a prison cell. The world may be angry, confusing, loudand lopsided when drinking it, but when the bottle is empty all you'll want is more. Realityhas never been this fun, even if it's frequently this random and hopeless. Better to takethe oblong fantasy.AdvertisementJonathan Genet, who has the haunting, gaunt electricity ofPierre Clementi, plays Witold,a student trying to fervently type his masterpiece in every spare second he finds. He andhis friend Fuchs (     Johan Libéreau    ) have retreated to a bizarre country inn for a little peaceand quiet only to find neither. The owner is Madame Woytis (     Sabine Azéma    , whose font ofshocking red hair is always a relief to see), who is prone to fits of absolute stillnesswhenever excitement gets the better of her, usually after a screaming fit or a bout ofsomnambulant wood chopping. The other occupants of the inn are Woytis' lover Léon(Jean­ François Balmer), who salts his worts and jumbles his words, Catherette the maid(     Clémentine Pons    ), whose cleft lip entrances all who gaze upon it, Woytis' gorgeousdaughter Lena (     Victória Guerra    ) and her equally gorgeous paramour (     Andy Gillet    ).Atonce everything is wrong. A bird hangs from a small noose in the garden outside the inn.Bugs crawl over every morsel of food. Every time Witold catches sight of Lena he looseshis composure in the most percussive fashion possible. Fuchs disappears for shortstretches of time and comes back with increasingly flamboyant signs of injury. No onegets along, but they can't get quit of each other. There seems to be something keepingthem in each other's orbit. The confluence of symbols ­(an axe, lips, hanged animals, aladder)­ seem to hint that these disparate figures must destroy some part of theirconnection to one another in order to escape the prison of their imperfections. Witold'sexistence becomes a merry-­go-­round and he can't decide if he wants off.A merry­-go-­round might be the best way to describe the experience of watching thewhole of Żuławski's cinema. His camera certainly does plenty of spinning and twirling. Amerry-­go-­round operated by a cackling, drunken carny who thinks kids could stand thescare. So you go round and round and so much cinema gets into your eyes and openmouth you think you might throw up. Do you want to get off? This kind of exhilarationcould never be recreated by a responsible entertainer.You're implicated inthe madness as surely as he is.Advertisement He was born in Ukraine and spent his early life in Poland, barely escaping death at thehands of Nazis. Knowing firsthand what depths we can sink to, he dedicated himself tomixing high and low with ululating abandon. If his politics and blocking seem to evoke arailroad being constructed in front of an already moving train, it was ultimately an honestconcentration of fears and exuberances born of the realization that his life was not aguarantee. And so Żuławski shouted everything on his mind, threw sex and violence atthe screen with equal parts glee and revulsion, and rarely hid behind an edit. He wanted the camera to run every step and keep pacewith his characters. When he does edit to move significantly through time or space, it's toshock you, as in his favourite rug­-pulling technique, dropping the score out of a scenewithout warning. Ugliness must be paid attention to, even celebrated, as it gallops intoand trots upon our lives. Sometimes it's all we have, and we must have something. Asone of the fatuous aristocrats in his 1991 film "The Blue Note" says: "What is beautiful doesnot last." Trauma lasts forever."Cosmos" is both typical and atypical Żuławski. It's laugh-out-loud funny right up to its finalseconds, new territory for the haunted auteur. The cast has delicious comedic chemistryand the movie ends with the funniest closing text I've ever read followed by a gag reel. InAzéma's Madame Woytis we have the ever­present overbearing mother figure (familiarfrom his films "L'Amour Braque," "The Blue Note," "La Femme Publique" and "Szamanka") whoseems to enjoy tormenting her offspring, though this time with more demented personalitythanks to the mop­topped queen of French cinema's fervor. It's sex-obsessed but it'sromantic in its perverted longing, instead of just desperate. Witold has a poetic conceptionof the woman for whom he pines, and one gets the sense that he fears an Icarus­typeimmolation should he ever get too close. When he first shakes Lena's hand, it looks likehe's suddenly begun masturbating in front of her thanks to camera placement and hiscowed, fidgeting body language. He can't ever act as though he's meant to have a placeamong his fellow homo­sapiens, but that doesn't keep him from throwing himself intocrowds of them. That's the paradox at the heart of Żuławski's cinema. Those who dounderstand the bottomless grotesquery of humanity are addicted to the good parts thatlay beyond.Witold is plainly driven mad every second he remains in the company of Lena and herfamiliars, but he can't break away. He wants her, or the idea of her, badly enough to lethimself be mentally hobbled by the impossibility of their union. His paranoia at the eventstranspiring all around the house grows and grows and soon comes to hallucinatory life. Alook at a Tintin comic in the inn manifests into a man dressed as the famous boydetective during the final act. Long conversations about fixing Catherette's lip precede theintroduction of a woman played by the same actress whose perfect mouth conceals deepemotional scars. A final destructive act may be something Witold dreams, compells orperforms. Lena herself, who seems so detached and vibrant when Witold first encountersher, sinks into his quivering uncertainty the more time she spends at the receiving end ofhis affections. She undergoes transformation while Witold lusts after her essence andwrites soul describing passages about her in his book. The women in earlier work by thePolish conjurer tended to blend together, thanks in part to his continuous casting oflover/muse     Sophie Marceau    and because he relied so heavily on doppelgängers asnarrative devices. But here the women are much more clearly delineated. Guerra (lastseen in "Lines of Wellington," Raúl Ruiz's first film after his death) is the most memorablebecause she slowly becomes Witold and, by extension, Żuławski himself, prone tounexpected mood swings and bouts of open mouthed quaking at the unruly design offate. What does Lena see when she stands shivering, cigarette stuck aloft, staring into thesky? Us, sitting there, watching her. The same mad bunch of contradictory insects thatŻuławski saw whenever he pointed his camera at anyone: the boundless, endlesspossibility of it all, the horror and the wonder. The joy of wordplay, the ache of love, theterror of fascism, the pangs of envy. He saw all of us, everything we wanted to hide, andhis cinema is an explosion of all those dirty, secret things. "Cosmos" is everything at oncetoo fast, like the broken merry-go-round, sudden inebriation, or a magic trick.Real life is only steps away, but you'll never find anything as brutally fantasticout there.Advertisement