“I’ve made a career out of looking at the weird and bizarrepart of life,” New Zealand-based television journalistDavid Farriersays atthe beginning of this documentary, whose title doesn’t even begin to hint atthe depths of peculiarity this particular story ends up digging into. From thesamples of Farrier’s work the movie shows, the appealing reporter is a younger,hipper variant on CNN’s Jeanne Moos, a collector of novelty human-intereststories. As most collectors of novelty human-interest stories do, Farrier has ahealthy relationship to the Internet, and as he tells it, he was intrigued,while surfing it of an evening, to come upon what were billed as “CompetitiveTickling” videos. Advertisement At this point in the movie there’s a clip in which twoadolescent boys, dressed in high-school wrestler’s gear, hold down a thirdfellow and, yep, tickle him. The subject or victim, as you will, has thecustomary reaction to being held down and tickled: he laughs and squirms. It’sdifficult to see where the “competitive” side of it happens. To anon-fetishist, the whole thing looks rather pointless, among other things, buthey, the enlightened viewer can also shrug “nothing human is alien to me” andlive and let live and all that. Farrier figures the purveyors of this oddballmaterial won’t mind some exposure. But when he gets in touch with the firm thatprofesses to represent the makers of the video, he receives, in response, arude e-mail saying that the firm does not want to associate with a homosexualjournalist. (Farrier is gay, and out.) A request for clarification is met witha response containing a homophobic slur. This piques Farrier’s curiosity, buthe doesn’t really have a good idea of just what kind of bear, so to speak, he’spoking. Soon he and his producing partner are threatened with what would be, iftried, a very expensive lawsuit. Remember, nothing up to this point has goneany further than “I’d like to do a story on you.” Then, more weirdness. Acouple of “representatives” of the company fly out to New Zealand, first class,with the idea of ironing things out with Farrier. These odd, camera-shy folksdon’t have much to say on arrival except “stop.” Why it was necessary for themto fly around the world to deliver the message in person seems as much amystery to them as it is to Farrier. Farrier and his television segment-producing partner DylanReeve—the two are also the co-directors of this movie—then fly to the UnitedStates, where the videos are produced. They’re in the most interesting positiona journalist can find him or herself in—determined to get to the bottom of thestory, without having too much of an idea what the story really is. Trackingdown a shooting site in Los Angeles, they surprise one of the fellows who hadbeen out to visit them in New Zealand. They then trek to a town on the otherside of the country from where a lot of teen boys were recruited for ticklingvideos. Eventually they figure out what the viewer likely already inferred:“competetive tickling” does not exist, and the videos are non-pornographicfetish tapes made by parties who get very, very agitated at any suggestionsthat they are fetish tapes. A couple of participants in the videos tellharrowing tales of blackmail and exploitation, while makers of cheerfully outtickling fetish videos share their craft and tell disturbing tales of amysterious outlier producing similar material who’s making life difficult foreveryone doing it on the up-and-up. (Not that there are so many of those: asfetishes go, tickling really is prettyspecialized.)The web that Farrier and Reeve discover is shown to be more and more elaborate,and the story eventually becomes one of corruption, shame, closeting, and more.Farrier and Reeve discover the identity of their lawsuit-threatening tormentor,and manage to turn the tables on this individual, at least somewhat, but“Tickled” doesn’t build to a cheerleading climax. Instead, what occurs is likea sadder version of the drawing-back-of-the-curtain in “     The Wizard of Oz    .” Arevelation more pathetic than awe-inspiring.The moviemakers craft a satisfying narrative while leavingthe viewer with some questions; this is a movie that manages to be disquietingand entertaining simultaneously. You will believe, unfortunately, that a mancan build something that can be called “a tickling empire.” Advertisement