Rob Burnett’s “The Fundamentals of Caring,” releasedtheatrically today as well on Netflix after premiering at Sundance, expands onits title with the acronym ALOHA—Ask, Listen, Observe, Help, Ask Again. Theseare the fundamental requirements of a caregiver, as explained toPaul Rudd’sBen, a retired writer trying to cope with unimaginable grief by essentiallyfinding a surrogate son for the one he lost. Of course, the film exists toprove the rather simplistic ALOHA incorrect. There’s more to caring than anyacronym could convey, and it is often the unexpected relationships we forge inlife that get us over the emotional hurdles. Sadly, Burnett’s film, based onJonathan Evison’s book, simplifies too many of its themes, choosing to wallowin melodrama and forced cliché instead of character. The only reason it’s notunbearably saccharine is that Paul Rudd, again, grounds a film in something thatfeels genuine. He’s never an actor that comes across forced, and he does hisbest to find the truth in Burnett’s overwritten script. Advertisement “The Fundamentals of Caring” is one of those films in whichwe meet a man who won’t sign his divorce papers but know, because we’ve seenmovies before, that he will by the final scene. It’s a “lesson movie,” one inwhich we’re going to watch people start off in places of grief and bitternessand evolve towards happiness. Now, there’s something to be said for films thatdo this well. They teach us that we are all capable of more thanwe think we are, that even our darkest days will be followed by light. It’sone of the reasons cinema can still be a powerful artistic force for good, andinherent in whatRoger Ebertdefined as the “empathy machine” of film. And yet it’snot hard to tell when that empathy feels unearned or manipulative. Thecharacters in “The Fundamentals of Caring” aren’t real people as much as they arestrings waiting to tug at your heart. Ben’s first client as a caregiver is Trevor (Craig Roberts),an angry 18-year-old with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Trevor is aggressive anddifficult, opening up the interview process with Ben demanding to know how hewould wipe his ass (which will be one of Ben’s duties). He tries to shock Ben,but even this is done with such broad comedy that it feels like weakattempts at shock value. Yes, some kids in wheelchairs want blowjobs from KatyPerry and fake choking to scare their caregivers. Every time that Trevor doessomething “outrageous,” it should illuminate how he has pushed people awayto protect himself emotionally, but it lacks realism and teeth.Trevor is like a device, a way to chart Ben’sjourney from grief to happiness, and that leaves the whole piece a bithollow. “The Fundamentals of Caring” really loses focus when theroad trip on which Ben and Trevor are going picks up a couple of passengers,including a troubled young lady named Dot (Selena Gomez) for Trevor to flirt with and avery pregnant woman named Peaches (Megan Ferguson), who has a husband serving overseas. Asthis caravan of clichés motored deeper into melodrama—toward a lesson-learningending—my interest waned. And yet Rudd has an amazing ability to sell a cheesy line like “It’s the only reason we’re here,” regarding parenthood. Even as Burnett isdoubling down on the clichés, Rudd finds ways to ground it. If you’re a fan, it’san acting feat worth checking out. Everyone else may want to Ask Again forsomething better. Advertisement