Taika Waititi’s “Hunt for the Wilderpeople” shouldn’t work. It’sthe kind of project that’s difficult to describe without making it sound clichédand sentimental. It’s another coming-of-age tale, this one of a troubled teenagerfinding his place in the world deep in the mountains, with a man who neverthought he’d be a father figure. And yet Waititi’s film defies itsconvention through grounded characters, witty dialogue, compassionatefilmmaking and inventive storytelling. “Hunt for the Wilderpeople” isconsistently clever and even moving. It’s proof that we’ll keep listening to thefamiliar stories if they’re this well-told. Advertisement Teenager Ricky (Julian Dennison) is introduced as “a realbad egg.” He’s been shuttled around foster homes, getting in trouble for randomjuvenile things like loitering and graffiti. His officer, Paula (Rachel House)takes “No Child Left Behind” as a threat, not a comfort, focusing on Ricky likea problem that needs to be solved. She’s the kind of authority figure who setsRicky up for failure, listing his problems instead of his qualities. And she’simmediately tonally offset by Ricky’s new mother, Bella (Rima Te Wiata), thekind of woman who wears sweaters with cat faces on them and hugs with her wholebody. But Bella is no softie. She wins Ricky over by being honest, sayingthings like “Have some breakfast … then you can run away.” There’s a telling butbrief exchange (Waititi never hammers or underlines his themes) in which Bellaand Ricky see some wild horses and the young man asks if he can ride them. Sheresponds, “Why do they need to be ridden anyway? Why can’t they just eat grassand be happy?” She’s essentially telling Ricky she’ll give him the samefreedom. Of course, nothing that great lasts and Ricky ends up on therun for reasons I won’t spoil. Deep in the forest, Ricky plans a life livingoff the land with his dog Tupac. He’s tracked and found by Bella’s husbandHec (Sam Neill), who gets injured, delaying their return to civilization longenough that the authorities come looking. Hec and Ricky are a traditionaloil-and-water movie duo, physically and emotionally off-set. Ricky writeshaikus. Hec hunts. And the two become famous, all over national news andtracked by the incompetent Paula. “Hunt for the Wilderpeople” becomes a road moviewith no road, a film about two people who may seem entirely different but haveboth been discarded by society. Waititi’s film never judges its characters. Ricky isn’t a “badegg” or a “dumb kid.” The film finds joy in scenes like the one in which hecreates a fake Walkman and dances to the music in his head. It’s essential tothe film’s success that Ricky’s not just the bumbling idiot he could havebeen in another filmmaker’s hands. We feel honest affection for Ricky. And the sameholds true for Hec, whom Waititi and Neill could have turned into a grizzledjerk. Dennison, Waititi and Neill find depth within the characters, as small moments become the foundation for the film’s emotion. They don’t play thecoming-of-age arc, they play the reality of each scene. It may sound obvious,but so many films like “Hunt for the Wilderpeople” try to play the emotion instead of grounding itin character. Advertisement It helps to have a compassionate and humane filmmaker in thedirector’s chair. The man behind “Boy” and “What We Do in the Shadows” not onlyknows how hit a comedy beat with perfect timing, but he knows the rhythm apiece like this needs to work. With a fantastic editing team (there’s asequence set to Nina Simone's “Sinnerman,” of all things, that is perfectly conceived andexecuted), he breaks “Hunt for the Wilderpeople” up into chapters, making it feel almost like amemory or the story that an adult Ricky is telling his kids later in life. Italmost approaches fairy tale mythology, especially the surprisingly action-packedfinale, one in which we honestly care about the fate of our two protagonists. So much of “Hunt for the Wilderpeople” looks easy. It’s notuntil one considers the number of places it could have gone awry that one trulyappreciates it. There are so many minor beats that produce laughs and majormoments that create surprising emotion. There’s a great scene halfway throughin which Hec and Ricky are high enough in the mountains that they can almosttouch the sky and Hec calls it “majestical.” It’s not a real word, but we knowwhat it means. It’s the meaning that matters in “Hunt for the Wilderpeople.” It's a downright majestical movie.