How do movies like “Marauders” get made? One assumes thatevery film has a creative impetus at some point in its production, but it’sincredibly hard to find one buried underneath this morally vile, incompetentlymade thriller. And so one has to wonder if it wasn’t a “paycheck gig” foreveryone involved. Was it merely the “business” aspect of show business? Or did directorSteven C. Millerset out to make an intense thriller about on-the-edge cops anddeadly criminals that would rivet viewers to their seats and justify theirticket or On Demand costs? Even for how negatively I responded to thebafflingly inept “Marauders,” I choose to believe that Miller and his overlytalented cast didn’t just do it for a paycheck. Even with that in mind, it’shard to forgive. Advertisement “Marauders” opens with a scene straight out of this year’s “Triple9,” as a series of masked men pull off a complex bank heist. They’re dressedlike the protagonists from the video game “Army of Two” (impersonal/terrifying skullmasks and bulletproof gear), and they’re highly-coordinated and technologicallysavvy. They even throw down speakers, so a Siri-esque voice can issue ordersinstead of the actual attackers—ex., “Do not hit the alarm or we will kill yourmanager.” They complete the assault, and on the way out they shoot said bankmanager point blank with a shotgun. From the beginning, “Marauders” displayssigns of hyperactive, inept filmmaking, the kind that uses shaky cams and quickcuts instead of actual visual compositions. It’s angry, loud and annoying. We soon learn that the bank was owned by a high-poweredfigure named Hubert (Bruce Willis, doing the bare minimum he can to get paid),who hides secrets of political and business leaders in his safety depositboxes. Of course, the criminals of “Marauders” have more complex goals thanmere accumulation of wealth, which is something that FBI Agent JonathanMontgomery (Christopher Meloni) quickly uncovers, with the help of fellowagents Stockwell (Dave Bautista) and Wells (Adrian Grenier), and local cop Mims(Johnathon Schaech). Mims happens to have a wife dying of cancer, which shouldadd to depth to his character but just feels manipulative. “Marauders” is such a by-the-numbers VOD-cop movie that it becomes depressing. A few scenes of plot furtherance as Montgomerytries to uncover the identity and purpose of the robber-murderers unfold, andthen we get another crime, and then a bit more procedural, and then anothercrime, and then a conclusion. Roll credits. In between this predictablestructure, we’re given next to nothing to care about. Meloni is an interestingchoice for the role that essentially becomes the lead (he’s an underrated actorwho more often gets supporting roles) but the writers bestow him almost nothinginteresting to play, forcing anger to become his defining trait. Hence, heopens doors like he’s mad at them. Grenier looks bored and Bautista gives asupporting part more than it deserves. Advertisement And then there’s the final act, full of revelations and twistsdesigned to shock but just rips gigantic plot holes in the rest ofthe film, while also forcing it into a morally dubious conclusion. What is thepoint of “Marauders”? One can’t take it seriously as social commentary at all,but it tries so hard to include that kind of material that it feels like itwants to be more than “dumb fun.” I’m all for a well-made action film, even ofthe VOD variety, that delivers the thrills. But “Marauders” forgot the “fun”part. It’s just “dumb.”