Sometimes you have to wonder how certain movies get made. Ihave no special knowledge of the production of “The Legend of Tarzan.” But Ihave to imagine that the movie spent such a long time in the developmentprocess that no one involved found a moment to look outside the Hollywoodbubble and surmise that maybe right now in America isn’t the most opportune timeto reboot a pop culture myth involving a quasi-superhero white guy who hasdominion over the animals and certain peoples of Africa. Advertisement The upper-case “r” in a circle that appears below the name“Tarzan” in the opening credits of this new movie, directed by “Harry Potter”stalwartDavid Yatesfrom a script byCraig Brewer(of “Hustle and Flow” and“Black Snake Moan” renown, and no, I’m not kidding) andAdam Cozad(no idea),may have something to do with the movie’s raison d’etre—when one has atrademark, one must exploit it. But the wisdom of propagating any kind of whitesavior narrative during the charged era of Black Lives Matter surely must haveseemed dubious, no? Actually, yes, because throughout its briskhour-and-forty-five minute running time, “The Legend of Tarzan” does things toreassure those viewers that care that the movie is indeed aware of its“problematics.” The movie begins with some texts evoking the colonization ofwhat was in the late 19thcentury called the Belgian Congo, and of anefarious scheme involving mercenaries, slave labor, and pilfered diamonds, allengineered by an envoy named Leon Rom. This fellow is played byChristoph Waltzand he carries with him a rosary that sometimes doubles as a short-distancenoose, which isn’t a heavy-handed piece of symbolism at all, no way. Anyway,he’s the bad guy, and he’s first seen entering the deepest, foggiest, mostspear-ridden caverns of the African jungle to bargain with fierce chief Mbonga(Djimon Hounsou), who will give Rom all the diamonds he needs to finance hisarmy … on delivery of his most hated enemy: Tarzan. The movie finds Tarzan up in England, all civilized andrespectable and Lord Greystoke-like, residing in his manor with wife Jane,something of a London celebrity and man of influence. The ruse of an invitationto check out Belgian’s “progress” in the Congo is proffered to Tarzan—this ispart of Rom’s trap—and Tarzan, I mean Lord Greystoke, I mean John Clayton, isdisinclined to accept. He’s moved, though, by the entreaties of an African-Americandiplomat/investigative agent, George Washington Williams (Samuel L. Jackson), who wants to tag along with, um, Tarzan, and get solid evidence ofillegal slave trading. That’s travel companion one. Once the Big T gets back tothe manor, we discover that he and Jane have a pretty 21st-centurytype relationship. She, played byMargot Robbie, insists that she’s comingalong too. He protests “The last thing you need is more stress"—I told youabout that 21stcentury biz—but she’s not having it. The gang ofthree hits the sea, and once on the Continent makes a meaningful detour to visitthe tribe that Jane knew when her parents were missionaries. And there is muchsinging and celebration in a manner not unlike that scene in “Hatari!” wherethey makeElsa Martinellithe elephant queen or whatever she was. Almost sixtyyears and ain’t a damn thing changed in Hollywood. Advertisement Is that entirely true? As the presence of Jackson heresomewhat attests, “The Legend of Tarzan” does make some attempts to addresscontemporary racial sensibilities/sensitivities. Almost every time somethingpotentially dicey rears its head in the narrative, the movie practically pausesto excuse itself and say, “I know what you’re thinking, but it isn’t what youthink, just wait,” and then, what do you know, Jackson’s character will chimein with an ironic apercu to remind everyone that we’re all friends here, andit’s the guy with the German accent and the rosary who’s the real problem. Still, once Hans Landa, I mean Leon Rom,doesshow up to spoil the happyhomecoming of Tarzan and Jane, laying ruin to the tribal village and kidnappingJane, the movie does provide an object lesson on what is and is not,apparently, acceptable in the violent-entertainment scheme of things. A peaceful,noble African tribal leader can take a bullet to the chest, but once she’s beenabducted, Jane can only have the threat of rape dangled in front of her and theaudience. (Waltz’s performance as the villain is terribly familiar, but it’skind of funny that he’s kitted out as if he wants the title role in a remake of“Fitzcarraldo.”) The way the semiotics play out should be somewhatqueasy-making even if you aren’t paying close attention. Even after the movieestablishes that Tarzan is a uniter, not a divider, the compromise he strikeswith his most fearsome African nemesis is only accomplished after we’re treatedto the spectacle of ultra-buffAlexander Skarsgårdputting the hurt on about adozen men of color. (And if you’re asking right about now why I have to bringpolitics, racial or otherwise, into it, one answer I have is that the movie didit first, by deigning to create a revisionist history of the Belgian Congo.) Strangely enough, though, if you can put theseconsiderations aside—or, I suppose, if you never cared about suchconsiderations in the first place—“The Legend ofTarzan” is a pretty good action-adventure movie. Its narrative is refreshinglyfree of bloat, folding the Tarzan origin story into a series of relativelypain-free flashbacks that actually dovetail credibly into its contemporaryscenario. The lead players, with the exception of the too-familiar Waltz, giveappealing performances, and the action scenes are pretty tight. I am amusedthat somebody took the “Blazing Saddles” joke about stampeding cattle throughthe Vatican as a sort of inspiration for a climactic set piece, but I also haveto admit the conceit works. For what it’s worth, “The Legend of Tarzan” isseveral unpretentious cuts above the pompous, leaden “Greystoke” of over thirtyyears ago. (I’m ignoring the 1998 “Tarzan and the Lost City” because nobodyeven saw it, let alone talked about it.) Advertisement