The view of North Korea presented in thefaux-documentary “Under the Sun” has such a tinge of the surreal it almostseems thatDavid Lynchmust have had an uncredited hand in the film. But ifRussian director Vitaly Mansky needed any help, he inadvertently got more thanhe could have dreamed of from the North Korean authorities, ironically enough. The film’s background no doubt would have made a killerdocumentary itself. Reportedly, Mansky got the North Koreans’ agreement to makea film about their secretive society, but with the proviso that they wouldwrite the story, provide the actors and generally supervise everything. Theonly thing they forgot to control, it seems, was the editing, which allowedMansky to leave the country and assemble a film that at once presents and mocksthe cheery vision of their nation that the North Koreans intended. Advertisement Mansky’s minders, endeavoring to make a film that appearedto be a documentary, set up a fictional construct from the get-go. Theirscenario centers on an eight-year-old girl named Lee Zin-mi, who lives with herparents in Pyongyang. All three characters are evidently as close toair-brushed ideals as real life would provide. Zin-mi is cute, bubbly andalways happy. Her parents, perfect Communist workers, dote on their child andobviously enjoy the spotless apartment that has been provided them for theshoot. With everything we see so beautiful, clean and bright, thefakery is blatant from the outset, and Mansky gleefully stresses it byincluding his minders’ off-camera instructions to their cast members. When wesee the ideal factory where Zin-mi’s mom works and her team always farsurpasses their quotas, the movie’s de facto directors urge the workers toexpress themselves “more joyfully!” Likewise, there’s a scene where an aging soldier visitsZin-mi’s class and tells the kids about his actions during the Korean Warfighting Americans, who, he dutifully recites, regularly hunted down and burnedchildren. The class members, rather than seeming shocked or fascinated, hearthis with expressions that feign interest, at least when the kids are notfighting to stay awake—footage the North Koreans surely would have eliminatedif they’d had the chance. In the same scene, the old warrior—who wears a jacket sofull of medals it might have come from a Marx Brothers’ movie—isn’t allowedto finish his speech and depart in dignity. Three times, Mansky’s minders callfor another take and instruct the guy to end his talk by urging the kids tojoin the Children’s Union, an outfit that apparently exists to lavish youthfuladoration on the country’s dynastic rulers, including the late Kim Jong-il,whose heroic deeds as “the Great Leader” are praised throughout the film. Advertisement One element of the film’s uncanny aura comes from the factthat, for all its obvious artificiality, itisstill a documentary: the streets—with their wide vistas, blocs of drabapartment buildings, and notable paucity of cars—are those of the NorthKorean capital; the gargantuan monuments and stadiums are actual embodiments ofthis regime’s values; and the people we see are real inhabitants of this veryunreal place. You look at them, even those viewed unawares in the background,searching for signs of stress, hunger or unhappiness, but all appear ascontented as cows or automatons. The film’s government-imposed aesthetic adds to itsfascination. Everything is big, clean, orderly and symmetrical. The color reddominates, yet all colors are pure and vibrant. It almost seems like somethingout of a 1950s magazine layout, or the strangest musical Busby Berkeley nevermade. You need don’t Susan Sontag to parse the authoritarian mentality behindthe hyper-real, zealously idealized look. Like Nazi and Soviet propaganda films, “Under the Sun”offers a vision of social perfection that comes at the expense of messy truthand human complexity. Although unintentionally funny throughout, its evocationof life in a totalitarian society is ultimately chilling. The happy picture theNorth Koreans struggle to present implies unfathomable depths of violence tothe human spirit beneath its glossy surface.