HBO’s “The Night Of,” starting Sunday and airing over thenext eight weeks, unfolds like the great novels of one of its creators, RichardPrice. The author of “Clockers” and “Samaritan” (among many others, but thoseare definite must-reads) has an amazing ability to tell stories of crime thataren’t mere whodunits but survey and analyze the cultural and urban landscapeas their mystery unfolds. “The Night Of” contains universal truths but alsocouldn’t take place anywhere other than where it does and when it does, in apost-9/11 New York City. It approaches one crime from severaldifferent angles without ever losing the narrative or feeling unfocused. Eachepisode feels like it introduces us to a new major player just as essential asthe one before, from the murder suspect himself to an attorney who lucks upon the case ofhis life to the retiring cop investigating one last criminal act and so on and so on. Itis about the immigrant experience in NYC, the cruelty of the criminal-creatingestablishment known as Rikers Island, a legal system in which guilt andinnocence are often afterthoughts, and, ultimately, a fascinating mystery. Itis Agatha Christie meets “The Wire,” and it’s one of the best things on TV inan already-great year. Advertisement The opening hour-plus of “The Night Of” spends almost all ofits time with Nasir “Naz” Khan (Riz Ahmedfrom “Nightcrawler,” and alsoappearing in the upcoming “Jason Bourne” and “Star Wars: Rogue One” in aneffort to have the most breakthrough 2016 possible), a Pakistani-Americancollege student living in Queens. He seems like a nice kid, the kind stunned tobe invited to a cool party in Manhattan on an October night. When his friend, who is also his ride,bails on him, Naz “borrows” his father’s taxi to go into the city. As he’strying to find the party, a beautiful young woman gets into his cab. She wantsto go to the beach. She's pretty enough and mysterious enough that Naz plays along. By the end of the night, he’ll be arrestedfor murder. This first hour, shot by the legendaryRobert Elswit(“ThereWill Be Blood,” “Inherent Vice”) and directed bySteven Zaillian(all but onehour were helmed by the director of “Searching For Bobby Fischer,” and that onewas directed by “Man on Wire”’sJames Marsh), hums like the best procedurals.Modern, educated TV audiences know something is going to happen to Naz—there’sno show otherwise—but the premiere takes its time with details that you won’teven know matter until episodes later when the show is in trial. Everyencounter, every decision, every moment feels both naturally captured—thanks inlarge part to Ahmed’s spectacularly lived-in performance, which only gets better in subsequent episodes—and also part of acomplex piece of art. In that sense, “The Night Of” reminds one of Lumet’s '70s and ‘80sfilms in that character is never lost in the “bigger picture” of mystery orcommentary. Lumet had an incredible ability to tell NY stories that were both sprawling and intimate. "The Night Of" shares that duality. It also doesn’t hurt that the arguable protagonist of thepiece, attorney John Stone (John Turturro) has echoes ofPaul Newman’s Frank Galvin from “The Verdict.” He carries around business cards with his smiling faceand just happens on Naz in the precinct holding cell on the fateful night in question. Does he see innocencein Naz’s eyes? Or does he just see opportunity? Exactly what each of the key characters in “The Night Of” are getting out of the situation, especially majorplayers like Detective Box (the greatBill Camp) and a young attorney named Chandra(Amara Karan), becomes essential to the way it unfolds. And when Naz gets toRikers, where young men are held until trial and either hardened further orpossibly even killed, he meets a career criminal (the mesmerizingMichael K. Williams) whosees him as an opportunity. “The Night Of” exemplifies the ripple effect of not just crime but the mechanics of acriminal investigation, from the men whose path crosses with Naz’s at Rikers tohis family (including the greatAsghar Farhadiregular Peyman Maadi as Naz’s father),unable to cover his defense. Advertisement On top of all these great ensemble performances andmemorable characters, there’s a riveting procedural element to “The Night Of,”especially in the early episodes, in which Zaillian and Price display anobvious fascination and respect for relatively unwanted jobs being done—from thegraveyard shift at the police station to the morgue attendants and so on. It’sthe kind of show where you distinctly hear the squeak of a dry erase marker as it writes “Homicide”on the white board. “The Night Of” doesn’t cut corners, giving Price fans thedetails they expect but that we rarely see in episodic television. And yet thebalance between detail and character is never thrown off. In one sense, it’s aprocedural with a protagonist uninterested in procedure or facts (Stone makesclear that he doesn’t care if Naz did it or not—actual guilt or innocence isonly one issue in the criminal justice system). It unfolds confidently as agreat crime novel AND as a character study of two men who would never meet if not for a murder, likely because of Price’s abilitywith the detailed mechanics of the crime novel mixed with Zaillian’s very human touch with actors. Let’s hopethey work together again soon. (Note: They only made seven of eight episodes available for press so if it all goes off the rails in the finalhour, remember the star rating is based on what I’ve seen. I have faith, though.)