Halfway through Zachary Trietz’s “Men Go to Battle,” anyviewer who went into the film due to the promise of its title might well beentitled to sigh, “If only.” A more accurate title for the low-budget indie Civil Wardrama would be, “Man (Sing.) Goes to Battle. Eventually. Sort of. For a While.Then Leaves. Other Man Stays Home.” But to avoid that marquee-buster, here’s the conciseversion: “Mumblecore Civil War.” Treitz’s film might not seek out the association with thatde facto movement, but it’s inevitable given their shared aesthetics andunderlying artistic goals. Chief among those are the idea that story in theconventional sense isn’t an important asset; the real point is to make filmsthat show “life as it really is” rather than as standard movies portray it. Advertisement That’s arguably a worthy enough starting point, but toconvert it into something compelling, a film must find something engaging thatsubstitutes for story—charming performances, witty defiance of viewerexpectations and interesting narrative diversions are among the options—andit’s all got to be well-executed enough, even by fairly rough standards, tojustify our attention. “Men Go to Battle” hits neither mark. In regards to execution, its failings are amplified—and to anextent perhaps, caused—by its being a period film. The notable Mumblecoremovies, of course, were contemporary tales shot in real locations, often theapartments of the actors. The people onscreen were often playing versions ofthemselves; they spoke and behaved as they did in real life. There was no needto conjure a special language or mode of behavior for them. A period film is different, but Treitz seems not to knowthat, or not to have the chops to deliver what’s needed—most likely thelatter. In the film’s first scene, we’re on a farm in Kentucky in 1861 and twomen are speaking with each other. From their initial words on, the actors soundlike contemporary guys mouthing dialogue written by someone trying to createsomething that sounds vaguely 19th-centuryish but coming up short. There are other movies that deal with rough-hewn characterscaught up in the Civil War’s fringe areas, and notable ones such as RobertBenton’s “Bad Company,” Robby Henson’s little-known but terrific “Pharaoh’sArmy,” andAng Lee’s “Ride With the Devil” (scripted byJames SchamusfromDaniel Woodrell’s novel) all begin with finely tuned scripts that, unlike theone by Treitz andKate Lyn Sheil, create persuasive, idiomatic versions of abygone era’s modes of speech. There’s artifice aplenty in this kind of writing, of course,and Mumblecore tries to avoid overt artifice. But what’s here is artificial inthe same ways those film’s scripts are; it’s just artifice that inadvertentlycalls attention to its lack of linguistic skill. The historical setting also accentuates the narrative’slacks. The tale starts off focusing on two brothers, foursquare Henry (Timothy Morton) and gangly Francis (David Maloney), illiterate but solid-seemingfarmers who have a testy, vacillating relationship during the war’s early days.Kentucky is a border state where some side with the North, some with the South,but we hear very little about the conflict for the story’s first third.Instead, we witness the day to day lives of the two brothers, their problemswith farming and credit and their occasional forays in search of female companyamong the town’s better-off families. Advertisement Eventually Henry disappears and it emerges he’s gone off tofight for the Union. He and Francis, who stayed home, begin writing letters,aided by friends. As a soldier, Henry sees some action, and this is where thefilm’s naturalistic aesthetic is really revealed as a self-deluding fraud. The moviewants to show us “life as it is”? Well, it certainly doesn’t show uswaras it is. In one scene, Henry’scompany is seen going into battle, and the scene is playedwithout synchronous sound, much less the godawful cacophony than itwould have been in real life. (The opening scenes of “Free State of Jones”offer a far more vivid and believable account of Civil War combat.) War is not hell in “Men Go to Battle.” It’s barely anything,beyond a backdrop behind the noodlings of the characters who wander through ornear it. Needless to say, this wastes a great deal of very rich material,denying viewers vivid and authentic accounts not only of the experience ofsoldiers in this theater of the war, but also of the heated political passionsand fiery disagreements that drove families and communities apart in thistortured part of the U.S. Indeed, seldom has a Civil War film made so little ofits actual historical context. The movie’s other area of failing is its acting. Theperformers here, especially leads Morton and Maloney, are certainly game. Butplaying period characters requires not just a smart script and expert directionbut a certain level of skill going in. The acting here, like too much of thefilm, ends up registering as unfortunately amateurish.