Near the end of theinsistently weepy “Fathers and Daughters,” Aunt Elizabeth (Diane Kruger, agedup with makeup) tells her niece Katie (Amanda Seyfried), with a weariness thatcan only be cultivated by a life of disappointment, that “men, they cansurvive without love—but not us women.” Deeply questionableanthropological assertions aside, the scene’s framing and timing suggests we’remeant to take this as at least one of the film’s theses. Which is weird, becauseit's definitely not the story the film tells as it shifts back and forth(largely seamlessly) between two timelines. Advertisement In the first, Jake Davis(Russell Crowe), a Pulitzer-winning novelist, loses his wife in a car accident.He was driving, and they were having an argument related to his years-agoinfidelity, and their young daughter Katie (skillfully played byKylie Rogers)was in the back seat. After the accident, trauma-related injuries coupled witha depressive disorder send Jake to an institution, and Katie goes to live withher Aunt Elizabeth—her mother's sister—and Uncle William (Bruce Greenwood) forseven months. Jake returns and is informed by Elizabeth and William that they'dprefer to adopt Katie, doubting he can provide for her sufficiently. As youmight suspect, they have some other motivations, too. That kicks off the rest ofthe action, and the film cuts between this history and thirtyish Katie, now aPh.D. student studying psychology and working with a young girl, Lucy(Quvenzhané Wallis), who hasn't spoken since her mother's death. Katie alsoself-medicates by hooking up with men in bathrooms and at bars and drinking, abehavior she tells her therapist helps her “feel something.” (She’s a buddingpsychologistandshe has emotionalattachment problems, and that’s ironic, get it?) Then Katie meets Cameron(Aaron Paul), who idolizes her father and, as it turns out, is a loving andlongsuffering boyfriend. Katie is scared of commitment and tries to drive himaway. Will love win out? Despite itstitle, “Fathers and Daughters” is only interested in one father and onedaughter, and in one idea: that your childhood experiences help shape yourrelationships and actions in adulthood. That's not a particularly provocativeidea—whenJohn Mayerhas written a song about it, you know it's over—but then,there's regrettably nothing very provocative about “Fathers andDaughters.” Each plot point plods along with utter predictability. You know assoon as Jake enters an institution that he'll have trouble keeping Katie whenhe gets out, just like you know as soon as you see Katie hooking up with a guyat school that the film will characterize her actions as an effort to exorcisesome demon. (The only surprising thing about the movie is that William andElizabeth aren't childless.) With each big scene, the film signals hard viaswelling music and self-consciously meaningful one-liners that you're meanttofeelhere. Advertisement The thing is, sometimes youdo. Melodrama can have its merits when the players are good, and “Fathers andDaughters” is top-heavy with acting talent. The father-daughter chemistrybetween Crowe and Rogers feels natural whether they're hugging or fighting, andSeyfried's expressive performance transforms a role that seems borrowed from aLifetime potboiler into something much more empathetic. Brad Desch'sscreenplay for “Fathers and Daughters” made the Black List in 2012, anddirectorGabriele Muccino(“Seven Pounds,” “The Pursuit of Happyness”) hasample experience with this sort of material. It's lavishly shot and styled.It's nice to look at. Which leads us back to AuntElizabeth's suggestion that men don't need love to live, but womendo. “Fathers and Daughters” strongly suggests the latter is true—Katie'spromiscuity is slowly killing her—but that the former isn't at all. Both Jakeand Cameron refuse to live without love. You could argue that Elizabeth iswrong, but the statement just hangs there in the air, left unrefuted anduncontested, as if it speaks for itself. It's the lines likethese—statements that sounds profound, but mean next to nothing—that reallysink “Fathers and Daughters.” If it didn't so obviously want to be aSerious Adult Drama, leaned into its own melodrama with zest, it could havebeen pretty good. As it is, it feels like a misfire that's trying just a littletoo hard to be Oscar bait. But in some ways that's what makes it watchable: putgreat actors in a middling film, and you've still got some fine performances towatch. Pair “Fathers and Daughters” with a bottle of wine and a friend on arainy night, and it will work just fine.