One of the first people the viewer meets in “Indian Point”is Brian Vangor, a nuclear engineer who’s been working at the Indian PointEnergy Center, a nuclear power plant, for almost 40 years. Vangor is, asnuclear power plant workers go, kind of the anti-Homer Simpson. Soft-spoken,knowledgeable, conscientious, calm. He is the Senior Control Room Operator atthe plant and he seems to know well what he’s on about. He’s the kind of guy,in other words, who you definitely want overseeing such an operation. And hebelieves in what he does. “This technology has its problems,” he asserts, “But show me a technology that doesn’t.” Advertisement Of course, the potential problems of nuclear energy aredecidedly different from any other form of energy. This point was brought homeby the multiple meltdowns at Japan’s Fukushima plant after an earthquake andattendant tsunami in 2011. Japan, and the world, is still feeling the effectsof that disaster, and the event gave new motivation and energy to the residentsof the town Indian Point. Just thirty miles away from the New York metropolitanarea, the Indian Point plant is operated by a company called Entergy, and itslicense was up for renewal shortly after the Fukushima event. Writer/director Ivy Meerpool’sengrossing documentary profiles local activists and journalists—in this case,specifically, an activist and a journalist who are also a married couple—while lookingat the bigger picture via the story of Gregory Jaczko, the onetime head of theNuclear Regulatory Commission who, by this movie’s reckoning, was forced out ofhis position by a ginned-up scandal after his post-Fukushima recommendationsfor safety chafed the actual energy industry. Meerpool’s movie is scary without being alarmist; it notes,of course, the fact that Indian Point has operated without a Fukushima typeevent for over two decades, but it also quietly says that SHOULD a Fukushimatype event ever occur there, I myself probably won’t be around to write areview that’s critical of nuclear energy. While the profiles of folks likeVangor provide a certain even-handedness, the movie does have an agenda, andit’s helped when someone like Jim Steets, the spokesman for Entergy, shows upon screen. He’s very professional, maybe too professional: were one in the moodto be unkind, one would note that his whole manner practically screams“corporate hack” in mere nanoseconds. Jaczko, on the other hand, is portrayed as a conscientiouspublic servant whose initial mission was hardly to rule out the nuclear option,but who is persuaded by what he witnesses in Japan to say, at one point, “Maybe[we need to] shut down all the plants.” Interesting idea, given that there arealmost 450 online in the world now. Even as it evokes terrifying dangers, the movie holds outhope. As Jaczko points out, even as space-age energy goes, nuclear is prettyold-school and probably on the way out. On the other hand, the energy industryas it’s currently constituted is digging its heels in: it wants what it wants,and productively moving forward is not really a priority. This, combined withthings such as “spent fuel pools,” which this movie describes in somedisquieting details, are invoked by the filmmakers to send a message to theviewer: change isn’t going to happen without constant citizen vigilance andactivism. Advertisement