“Norman Lear: Just Another Version of You” is a biography ofone of TV’s most influential producers, and an influential American, period:the creator of “All in the Family,” “Maude,” “Good Times” and “TheJeffersons,” and the founder of the liberal activist group People for theAmerican Way, which was founded as a response against evangelical activists toreclaim patriotism for the left. But while the film works as a primerfor viewers who are curious about Lear but don’t know the details of his lifeand work, it’s more interesting as a movie about age and memory. Lear was 92when the film was shot during a book tour last year, and while he’s as mentallyand physically active as a person could hope to be at his age, the movie issuffused with melancholy, much of it stemming from Lear’s realization that mostof his life is behind him. Advertisement Perhaps not coincidentally, it’s a film about faces. Most ofLear’s triumphs were in the 1970s: “All in the Family,” a politically-chargedsitcom based on the English series “Till Death Us Do Part,” debuted in CBS in1971, when the Vietnam War, the antiwar movement, and the feminist, gay rightsand Civil Rights movements were still powerfully active. The movie is filledwith shots of Lear on the sets of these shows, leading script readings andconsulting with actors, looking fit and alert and slim, and always clad in histrademark fedora. The documentary’s co-directors,Heidi EwingandRachel Grady,shoot Lear in the present day with the sort of tender regard you mightlavish on a grandparent if you had feature film-quality cameras and lightingand your grandparent didn’t mind being followed around by a movie crew. Their camera moves in close on Lear as he talks about hissuccesses and controversies in American television, his collaborations withwriters and actors, and his battles with network executives and censors overthe political content of his shows, which resembled political debates as oftenas they did farcical family spats. The moviemakers shoot some of Lear’s friends andcollaborators, including “All in the Family” co-star and future feature directorRob Reinerand “Good Times” starJohn Amos, with just as much affection. All theimages of deeply lined faces would be powerful on their own, but when they’rejuxtaposed with shots of their younger selves—often being projected on a largescreen while the older versions watch—the effect is magical: cinema as timemachine. At various points they are all watching what amounts to the movie oftheir lives. The longest one is about Lear, who trips back through his own pastwith the filmmakers’ guidance, riffing on memories, telling stories, andtearing up at the sight of old friends who died a long time ago. The mosttouching sequences feature “All in the Family” star Carroll O’Connor, whoplayed the bigoted working-class Irish-American Archie Bunker. Learacknowledges that Archie is a version of his own father, and weeps whileviewing the memorable episode where Archie describes his dad, a bigot who beathis values into his son, as a great man and a loving parent. Advertisement Jumping off from an early statement by Lear about how muchhe loves the magic of theater, the directors place him and the otherpresent-day witnesses on a soundstage that suggests a set from an unproduced,off-Broadway multimedia drama. Interviewees are surrounded by significant life-props(including Lear’s trademark hat on a coat rack), hanging screens, movie lightsand other theatrical and filmmaking paraphernalia, all clearly visible in theframe. The effect is reminiscent of the framing sequences inBob Fosse’s “Allthat Jazz,” where the hero tried to seduce the Angel of Death whilecontemplating the arc of his life. There’s even a child version of Lear onhand, played by a young actor. This “Afterlife Café” set is the core of the film.The yellowed family photos, newspaper clippings and home movie and interviewfootage—stretching back through the 1960s and sometimes earlier—seem to radiateout from it. The directors build out this Proustian notion by cuttingfrom the present to the past without warning, as when Lear rides an elevatedtrain through Upper Manhattan, glances out the window and sees train footagefrom that same train line when he was a boy. It’s all rather arty for what isultimately a showbiz documentary about a famous TV producer, but while thetime-machine technique doesn’t always feel necessary or right (sometimes youjust want to hear people talking about what they saw and did and lose the otherstuff) at least it’s a thoughtful attempt to give viewers an honest-to-goodnessartistic portrait of Lear—an artistic representation of an artist, as opposedto a data dump that the audience could just as easily get by staying home andreading Wikipedia. Unfortunately, these poetic effects often come at theexpense of the basics. There are puzzling lapses in reporting: we learn, forexample, that Lear’s vagabond con-man of a father went to jail when he was nineand that his absence devastated the boy, contributing to his lifelongdistrust of father figures and authority, but we never learn what, exactly, theelder Lear was charged with, how long he was behind bars, or whateventually became of him. Later, Lear talks with agonized honesty about thecollapse of his first marriage to Frances Lear, who was mentally ill; theanecdote ends with Lear searching her out after she disappeared and finding heron the floor of an apartment, but we never find out exactly what became of her. Advertisement These gaps and others are frustrating because they seem asif they could have filled without much trouble, and because the screen timethey might have occupied is often filled up with scenes that feel like budgetFellini. The sequences dealing with the classic sitcoms are a bit frustrating,too, cutting away just when they seem to be building up a rhetoricalhead of steam; this is particularly noticeable in the “Good Times” and “TheJeffersons” sequences, which open up a can of worms related to race andrepresentation that the film doesn’t quite know how to deal with. Still, this is a striking piece of work. Lear is a greatcamera subject, a brilliant storyteller and so emotionally transparent thatyou might not mind if he went on for another half-hour—aslong as it meantthat you got to hear him talk some more, or watch him sit and think, or tearup over images of people who meant something to him.