“There’s a real me without the uniform.”—Darryl StrawberryIn 1983, Darryl Strawberry won the Rookie of the Year forthe amazing season he had with the New York Mets. In 1984, Dwight “Doc” Goodenjoined the same team and won the same award after a ridiculous year thatincluded 17 wins and over 275 strikeouts. The next year, Gooden won the CyYoung and the team won the World Series in 1986. These weren’t average baseballplayers. They were icons. They were demigods. They were prepared to redefinethe sport, dominating for a decade or more on their way to the Hall of Fame. Theywere also addicts, two men who fought battles against drug and alcoholaddiction in a city and an era that downright encouraged it. Co-directors JuddApatow andMichael Bonfigliounited the pair again in a Queens diner for theirepisode of ESPN’s excellent sports documentary series “30 for 30” called “Doc& Darryl,” airing this Thursday, 8pm CST. The two reminisce a bit, but more isrevealed in one-on-one interviews with the men that focus on the real people inside the uniforms more than the fame they earned on the baseball diamond. Advertisement Darryl Strawberry came from an incredibly dark background inLos Angeles, where his father abused him on a regular basis and even threatenedhis family with a shotgun. He had what he calls “scars” coming into the league,when he was the #1 pick for the New York Mets. He also had one of the mostbeautiful and seemingly effortless swings that the sport has ever seen. But hebrought the lessons of an alcoholic father to New York in the mid-‘80s, a citydefined by excess. To handle the pressure of being the #1 pick, Strawberrystarted getting high every day. And he’d go out partying every night, evenclaiming he once hit two home runs with a blinding hangover. And then hediscovered cocaine. Joining Strawberry on this crazy train was the similarly preternaturallygifted Doc Gooden, a man who also had a background of addiction and pressure.His father wasn’t abusive, but he was an alcoholic, and Gooden speaks eventoday of the pressure in not letting down his own man when he started playingball. Gooden had an arm like a whip, able to pinpoint a fastball in a way that seemed literally unfair. I speak from experience here, becoming a huge baseballfan in the early to mid-‘80s. I was ahugeDoc Gooden fan. Like some of the interview subjects in “Doc & Darryl”(including superfanJon Stewart, managerDavey Johnson, Tom Verducci, andco-Met Keith Hernandez) say, Gooden felt like a “once in a lifetime” pitcher.And then he discovered cocaine. For a time, Doc & Darryl were highly functioningaddicts. In fact, both men speak of the legendary ’86 Mets as a team ofjunkies, men who would pop amphetamines on their way out to the field so they couldperform better. They were called “greenies,” and if you didn’t take them it wasperceived that you weren’t trying hard enough. Two very young men in Gooden andStrawberry ended up on a team that would make them stars, but one also has towonder if the speed and aggression of New York didn’t feed their addiction. Wouldthey have turned out the same in Seattle? Advertisement Perhaps they would have, because “Doc & Darryl” is careful not to placeblame on anyone but the two men in its title and their addictions. At a fewpoints, Apatow & Bonfiglio almost move too quickly, especially when itcomes to a rape charge (that Gooden denies) and domestic abuse (that Strawberrydoes not). And there are some scary chapters that the whole production seems tozip through, including a suicide attempt by Gooden and a fascinating concept,not really suggested until the end by Bob Forrest of “Celebrity Rehab” (onwhich Gooden appeared) that fame allows men like Gooden and Strawberry to neverhave a rock bottom. Gooden will always be recognized and always be cheered, even in the darkest pits of his addiction. Forthe record, Strawberry seems honestly happy and open (he admits things like “Ihurt a lot of people”), having turned his pain into a life with the church andfounding the Darryl Strawberry Recovery Center in Florida. Gooden seems to still struggle,making headlines for relapses as recently as last year, and he comes acrossnervous through a lot of the film—a good man still fighting the fight. Michael Bonfiglio did the excellent 2012 chapter of "30 for 30" onBo Jackson, so he knows a thing or two about larger-than-life sports personalities, but whyJudd Apatow? Well, he’s a New York Mets fan, but there’salso an interesting line to be drawn if one considers the theme of most of hisfilms—men trying to define themselves as lovers (“The 40-Year-Old Virgin”),fathers (“Knocked Up”), husbands (“This is 40”), etc. One can’t be aprofessional athlete and an addict forever, and that’s a lesson that DarrylStrawberry and Doc Gooden learned the hard way, falling from pedestals on whichso many of us placed them. And they're still trying to exactly figure out their place in life and sports history. There’s so much history between these two that justseeing them sit across from each other at a diner should be enough for mostbaseball fans old enough to remember when the Mets ruled the sports world (and I wanted a bit more of the actual diner conversation, to be honest). Thatthe film about them becomes more about human frailty, regret, and—eventually—hope for the future, speaks to its excellence.