“I don’t need that,” Ellen (AmyHargreaves) says, taking off her wedding ring during her first hotel tryst withprotagonist Travis (Matt McGorry). It’s a disingenuous moment that encapsulatesthe lack of emotional honesty that permeates “How He Fell in Love”. Directed and written byMarc Meyers, thestory follows Travis, an uninspired musician meandering through his early 30's in one of the most lifeless renditions of New York ever put to film.He’s still hung up on an ex-girlfriend/music partner whose wedding he sullenlyattends in the opening scene. That is until he gets involved with the older,married yoga instructor, Ellen. Their affair, unsurprisingly, upends theirlives and identities, forcing them to address major issues that being togetherbrings to the surface. For Travis, all his issues are brought upon by hisinability to do much with his life despite the opportunities. For Ellen, thereare more issues at hand, including her faltering marriage to Henry (Mark Blum),who is 20 years older than her. Neither Travis nor Ellen seem to care allthat much about the weight of the decision they’ve made and how it affectsother people. They’re bored with their lives, and this is just the easiest wayto get the change they keep complaining that they need. Advertisement If “How He Fell in Love” had more energyand a bit more of a sense of humor it would almost come across as a parody ofthe sort of aimless, minor key romantic dramas that come out year after yearwith little in the way to differentiate them. Every choice made for the film,from the mostly white cast of characters to the framing and color palette isoffensively generic, even if “How He Fell in Love” is too forgettable to feellike a misfire. The story doesn’t provide the characters enough complicationsor personality, so it’s hard to imagine it ever being great, even in the handsof a better director. Although, if the actors had more chemistry maybe itwouldn’t be so middling. This is the film's biggest issue.How can you craft a love story when your leads have barely any chemistry? Whenthese two say “I love you” it comes across like words they’re just trying on tohear how they sound, not because there is any deep connection between the two.Every time they describe their romance as “spectacular” or “indescribable” itbecomes more and more laughable. The acting starts off capable even if itreflects the same lifelessness of the film itself, but as the story continuesthe performances only magnify script issues that become unbearable. It’s as ifeven the actors don’t believe the lines they’re saying. An argument betweenEllen and Henry towards the end is the best example: She’s become a shrill cliché, he pivots emotionally from calm resignation tofury that’s hard to make sense of since he’s so thinly written. Watching “HowHe Fell in Love” I was left wondering, who are these people? They have asmattering of personality traits but not much in the way of a well-thought outemotional landscape. Travis is an especially odd choice for aleading character. He’s not conflicted or charming in the way the characterneeds to be for this story to work, and McGorry is neither talented norcharismatic enough to make the character come to life. His line readings oftencome across as if he’s not sure the character is trying to make a terrible jokeor is actually being earnest. Ellen is a bitmore complicated, as her inability to have kids becomes a major component ofher character, but she becomes more and more unlikeable as the film goes on. Ina different world, “How He Fell in Love” could be a critique on the ways peoplechase the high that comes with new, illicit romance despite the obvious dangerthat lies ahead, but the film is too timid to skewer its characters and makeany bold choices. Advertisement There are a few interesting subplots thathad the potential to say something, anything about the human condition. Monica(Britne Oldford) is Travis’ somewhat girlfriend who wants more from him thanhe’s willing to give. It sets up what could have been an exploration of thesort of prickly dynamics that come with modern dating thanks to technology andnebulously defined relationships, but Meyers drops that idea before it’sallowed to gain any weight. At the beginning, I wondered howdifferent the film would be if told from his perspective. Meyers is smart tonot make Henry cruel or cold. If anything he’s a good husband who loves Ellen,just not in the way she wants him to, and Mark Blum infuses a sweetness in thecharacter that makes him easy to feel for. This makes the film’s moralitycomplicated in a good way. But again, Meyers doesn’t examine this, insteadchoosing to write Henry as downright nonsensical during the last act in a waythat contradicts how he’s been previously used to create drama. Sure, thisprovides twists but it doesn’t feel honest. What makes a good love story in the firstplace? Chemistry is, of course, vital. The warmth and sexual tension betweentwo actors can elevate a story from being mediocre to outstanding or ruin apotentially great one. A good love story doesn’t need to be grand to impact theaudience. There are many love stories with an arc from first kiss to heartbreakthat plays in a minor key, but they need chemistry and a point of view to feellike they matter. Despite how much these characters go on and on about theirlives and loves, the film itself has nothing to say.