Just over a year ago, not long after being released from theconfinement center where he spent an eight-month sentence, author, filmmakerand convicted felon Dinesh D’Souza took to Twitter to offer up his followers aphotograph that purported to show a youngHillary Clintonwith a Confederateflag prominently displayed behind her. Even a glaucoma victim could tell that it was a fake—a doctored version of a photo of her as astudent as Wellesley in 1969 that ran inLifemagazine—but somehow thismanaged to get by him. When he did eventually post a vague correction, heinstead advised his followers to make fun of her glasses and hairdo, neither ofwhich appear to be especially outrageous for a Wellesley student in the late ‘60s.Now imagine that photograph—dubiously sourced, factually questionable andsuffused with nasty personal cracks instead of any legitimate insight orcriticism—and you have D’Souza’s latest film, “Hillary’s America: The SecretHistory of the Democratic Party,” a work that almost makes his previouscinematic efforts, “2016: Obama’s America” and “America” seem lucid and well-reasoned by comparison. Little more than an extendedversion of the kind of political screeds that can be found online with only aminimum of effort, this is just a terrible movie, and, depending on theconditions that were set forth, there is a chance it could be considered aparole violation as well. Advertisement If you think I'm being gratuitously mean (or giving up aspoiler) by referring to D’Souza as a convicted felon, then you should knowthat the movie actually opens with him being sentenced to eight months in ahalfway house, community service and a $30,000 fine for committing acampaign-finance violation involving getting straw donors to contribute to thecampaign of a friend running for the U.S. Senate. According to the film,D’Souza is really being convicted for the crime of having made a movie thatdared to expose Obama as a lying, cheating monster hellbent on destroyingAmerica. While in the stir—in which he seems to be the only one notconvicted of a violent crime—he asks around about the big gangs and how theyconsolidate their power. After getting a primer from fellow inmate Roc, it dawns on him that what he is hearing is oddly familiar. “What if thegoal of the Democratic Party is to steal the most valuable thing this worldever produced?” You know, America! After finally departing the confinement center, D’Souza knowswhat he has to do. This requires studying up on the Democratic Party—somethingthat evidently never occurred to him before when he made films about it—andtakes him to “Democratic Headquarters,” a recreated location that appears tohave had its production design supervised by Tommy Wiseau and which contains asecret basement in which all of their dirty secrets are kept from public view.As it turns out, the Republicans were remarkably forward-thinking in all waysimaginable in regards to things like opposing slavery and the KKK while thoseDemocrats were busy seizing Indian lands, enslaving blacks and taking advantageof women. We learn of the monstrous policies of such infamous Democrats asWoodrow Wilson (who screened “The Birth of a Nation” at the White House) andLyndon Johnson (whose only interest in passing the Voting Rights Act was toappease Negroes who “are pretty uppity” and to ensure their party loyalty forthe next 200 years). At this point, you may be thinking “Hey, didn’t thepolitical parties originally known as the Democrats and Republicans change andevolve over time to the point where the once-conservative Democrats becameRepublicans and the more progressive Republicans became Democrats?” Not sofast, according to D'Souza—he assures us that nothing of the sort happened andthe only reason that Southern Democrats became Republican after the VotingRights Act was because the South became more prosperous and less racist becauseof Republican policies. (This factoid is accompanied by a picture of RonaldReagan, so you know it is true). The film also takes time to hit a couple of favorite non-electedtargets of the conservative movement. Margaret Sanger, the founder of PlannedParenthood, is presented as a character straight out of a horror film, and muchis made of a lecture that she gave to a gathering of female KKK members. Ofcourse, the film doesn’t mention that Sanger at the time basically spoke toanyone who would listen regarding birth control (she later described the talkas “one of the weirdest experiences I had in lectures”), or how she was praisedin later years by none other than Martin Luther King Jr. Then there is SaulAlinsky, who is portrayed as a criminal monster who worked his way up fromscamming cheap meals as a starving student to practically becoming theright-hand man to gangster Frank Nitti, eventually taking the lessons helearned there to organizing liberal types in order to seize power for thesocialist agenda by pushing from the outside. Eventually, one of his protégésoutdoes him by remarking that if they can somehow take over the government,“Then we can push from the inside.” Advertisement That protégé is none other than Hillary Clinton, and aftersneaking into the basement of a Clinton recruitment center, D’Souza learns theshocking truth about her as well. By “shocking truth,” of course, the information amounts to “largely discredited crap your uncle sent you on Facebook.” The tenor of thissegment is set with D’Souza asking “Is Hillary really capable of enabling arapist?” and it goes downhill from there as we get another rehash of husband Bill’sinfidelities (there are many shots of a woman in a sexy black dress slinkingout of various places), Hillary ranting through the halls of the White House, arecounting of that uranium scandal that turned out to be much ado about nothingand the possible depravations of the Clinton Foundation. As for Benghazi, hesupposes that she refused to send in help because “she couldn’t figure out howto make a buck off of them.” As this segment ends, D’Souza denounces them fortheir “hateful rhetoric” before calling them “depraved crooks” who will “turnall of America into a plantation” if she is elected president. At no time,however, does he make any sort of case for an alternative to her in thiselection cycle. Even though the film is up-to-date enough to include a momentsuggesting that Obama was responsible for the massacre in Orlando, there is, atmost, one brief and vague reference to Donald Trump. All of this is conveyed by D’Souza in the most cinematicallyinept ways imaginable. The film is less a coherent narrative than a compendiumof slanders, innuendos, cherry-picked facts, blatant omissions, stuff taken almostdirectly from his earlier documentaries, terrible historical reenactments, a couple ofinterviews that convey additional information of a highly dubious manner andironic clips from movies that you will wish that you had watched instead of thisone (including “Metropolis” and “Evita"). From a filmmaking perspective, thewhole thing is so amateurishly done that even those who fall close to D’Souzaon the political spectrum should feel ripped off. Worst of all, it utterlyfails at its mission of being the ultimate Hillary Clinton takedown by neverlaying a single glove on her. This is especially astounding, as even thoseinclined to support her could probably name a couple of things she has done inher years in the spotlight that are legitimately questionable—her vote for thewar in Iraq and her embrace of the teachings of Henry Kissinger to name acouple—but instead of exploring those, D’Souza is more concerned with callingBill Clinton a sex abuser but blaming it all on Hillary. “Hillary’sAmerica” may well be the single dumbest documentary that I have ever seen in mylife—nearly two hours of poisonous bluster and anti-historical rhetoric thatcomes across like the desperate ravings of someone trying to make a few morebucks by rehashing the same nonsense before his gravy trainfinally leaves town. The closest thing I can compare it to are thestrange and highly speculative documentaries that Sunn Classics used to crankout in the late Seventies—movies that breathlessly promised viewers that theywould reveal the existence of life after death or the Bermuda Triangle orNoah’s Ark but only gave people clumsy reenactments, interviews with highlydubious experts and wild speculation without ever actually offering any of theconcrete proof that they promised. Those films used to get huge audiences, butonce viewers caught on to the con, interest dropped sharply. And if the drop ininterest between D’Souza’s first two films is any indication (“2016” was a sizable hit but “America” came and went so quickly that he never makes reference toit once here), there is an excellent chance this film will face the same fate.The only intelligent thought the film has to offer comes at the very end whenD’Souza admonishes people to go out and vote. Okay, he can’t, but the thoughtis still nice. Advertisement