In both his work and his interviews,Woody Allenshows aquietly insistent cynicism (he would say “realism”) about the futility of humanendeavor in a meaningless, godless universe, and stuff. There is one aspect ofearthly existence for which he has a demonstrable soft spot, however, and thatis The Past. Which is possibly the reason that his most recent films set there—“Midnightin Paris” and this week’s “Café Society”—are among the most beguiling in hisongoing late work. The opening image of “Café Society” sets the tone: abreathtaking shot of an impossibly clear-blue swimming pool at dusk, surroundedby elegant people in formal wear. Allen, production designerSanto Loquasto,and cinematographerVittorio Storaro(the legendary camera maestro hereworking, as is Allen, for the first time in the digital format, and knocking itout of the park) have a very particular vision of 1930s Hollywood, despiteAllen’s well-known and well-worn antipathy toward Los Angeles in general. It ishere, Allen tells us in his voiceover narration, that talent agent Phil Stern(Steve Carell), seen at poolside “holding court” before being interrupted by aphone call, is a major player and contented fat cat. The phone call is from hisolder sister Rose (Jeannie Berlin), matriarch of a clan right out of Allen’s1987 “Radio Days,” informing him that her youngest son Bobby (Jesse Eisenberg)is headed out to the West Coast, and that Phil should help set him up, despitethe fact that the energetic young man hasn’t the faintest idea of what he wantsto do. Advertisement Speaking of “Radio Days,” Allen limns Bobby’s family withthe same anecdotal detail that he used to such great effect in the older film.Bobby’s sister Evelyn (Sari Lennick) is married to a philosophical academic,while his older brother Ben (Corey Stoll) is an aggressive gangster. How allthis will come to bear on Bobby’s adventures a whole continent away we have noidea, but Allen’s discursive mode is not unpleasant, and it does in fact payoff, albeit in an oblique way. As for Bobby himself, Eisenberg initially plays him as ayoung Allen stand-in, albeit a little more New York street-smart and selfdetermined. Uncle Phil is so busy, and/or uninterested, in giving his nephewthe time of day that he doesn’t see him for a week, during which time Bobbydecides, with long-distance encouragement from Ben, to sample the localcall-girl culture, leading to a “Deconstructing Harry”-reminiscent scene that’sone of the movie’s few sour notes,Anna Camp’s game efforts as an inexperiencedprostitute notwithstanding. Once Phil does see the fellow, he makes him anerrand boy, and outsources overseeing his social life to agency secretaryVeronica, or Vonnie, played by a luminousKristen Stewart. Together they sampleHollywood Mexican food, the edenic sands of Malibu, and ornate movie housesshowing pristine prints ofBarbara Stanwyckmovies. What a paradise it seems,except that Bobby falls hopelessly in love with Vonnie and Vonnie’s got amysterious boyfriend. One who’s almost never around because, for one thing,he’s a married man, and for another… Well, I don’t want to give anything away, but if you don’tsee what’s coming, you haven’t seen many Woody Allen films. While predictablein certain respects, “Café Society” surprises in others, one of which is the“life goes on” swerve it makes midway through, one by which, among otherthings, its title is justified. Bobby and Vonnie’s separate lives see Bobbytaking over management of a swank New York nightclub owned by his gangsterbrother and Vonnie becoming a Hollywood wife. That they never really got overeach other is the theme of the movie’s languid, lyrical and sad final third. When I saw “Irrational Man,” Allen’s film prior to this, in2015, it occurred to me that Allen has achieved something I never would havepredicted, and he himself might have never dared hope: he is, at this point inhis career, a better director than he is writer. The plot twists and dialogueof “Irrational Man” were familiar to the point of near-hoariness, but Allen’swork with his actors, his shot selection and his pacing were supple and fleet,and made the movie more effective than it would seem to have had the right tobe. “Café Society” has sharper writing than “Irrational Man” (although thelongtime Allen follower will hear more than one recycled gag, including onefrom, of all pictures, the 1967 “Casino Royale”), and when it doesn’t, his castis motivated enough to bring it off; as tired as the movie’s already oft-quotedline about life being written by a “sadistic comedy writer” is, Eisenberg makesit work in context. (Eisenberg’s performance here, by the way, is one of hisbest in a while. After the one-two punch of “End of the Tour” and “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice,” I almost expected to never enjoy his work again, but he does somepretty special things here; his reaction to seeing Vonnie again, unexpectedly,after a long time apart, is one of them.) Advertisement But it’s the filmmaking around the writing that casts aparticular spell. Particularly near the end, as Allen adds up the moralfailings and squelched desires and doused dreams of all his characters. (Thedirector provides voiceover narration throughout, and while his timing andinflection are on point as ever, his voice is frail, weakening; for the firsttime in a film, he sounds like the person he is, an 80-year-old man.) And thenhe wraps the whole thing up at a New Year’s celebration that’s as visuallybeautiful as the pool party at the film’s opening but is at the same timeinfused with a powerful but still wistful cinematic incense of paradise lost.