“For the Plasma” is a delightful oddity, an indie comedywith sci-fi twists and an indecipherable plot. It’s partJacques Rivette, partShane Carruth, and part WesAnderson. It might be part Tommy Wiseau too. With deadpan line readings thatseem purposefully affected, it’s a film that plays with our instinct to lookfor meaning in imagery, and the baggage we bring to a movie. In fact, that’swhat it’s about—someone trying to read images of the natural world as somethinggreater. She even says, and it could be to us as viewers as much as the character to whomshe’s speaking, “I just need you to look, to describe within the frame.” Forviewers hoping to assemble a greater meaning from multiple frames, “For thePlasma” could be frustrating, but it’s so likable from moment to moment thatits seemingly purposeful lack of coherence is forgivable. Just enjoy the frame. Advertisement Shot on gorgeous 16mm on almost no budget, most of “For thePlasma” takes place in a remote house in Maine, and the forest and bodies ofwater that surround it. In this distant location, a woman named Helen (RosalieLowe) monitors the area around her for forest fires, using CCTV to do so.Cameras have been set up on trees in the surrounding areas, and Helen watchesthe natural world through an “unnatural” device. Her friend Charlie (AnabelleLeMieux) arrives to help with the project, and learns that Helen has discoveredthat she can predict changes in global financial markets by looking at thetrees through her cameras. She draws patterns in the morning’s financialsections—highlighting some words and blocking out others—and then “sees things”in the trees. She needs Charlie’s help with the project, but issues of theirpast friendship surface, at first reminding one of films like “Queen of Earth”and Tribeca’s “Always Shine,” but “For the Plasma” is not just a story about aunique female friendship. I haven’t even mentioned the ghosts or the men in suits or the lighthousekeeper. DirectorsBingham BryantandKyle Molzanplayfully intercutimagery of coastal Maine with lo-fi security cameras and the footage theyrecord. In a key, early conversation, Helen talks about her project to Charlie,discussing image vs. reality, and how meaning and intent change both. It’s theimage of the tree versus the purpose of looking at the tree. She’s been hiredto look at the tree to prevent forest fires. She is looking at that image to doso. Does the meaning of watching change when the intention changes? If shereads about finance and puts that in her head, does it change the process? Dothings like “watching” and “intention” have pliable purpose? And what is theintent we bring to a film? From the minute we see these two characters meet, we’retrained to try and figure out their relationship, inclined to discern what’sbehind them and predict what’s ahead, instead of just looking in the frame. The great, synth score byKeiichi Suzukiadds to the oddityof the project, but it’s the awkward, stilted line readings that both enhancethe charming strangeness of it all, and seem almost purposefully Wiseau-esque(the minute I took that note the two leads inexplicably started tossing afootball back and forth on a walk-and-talk … so). When the lighthouse keepershows up with a flashlight that he only turns on his face when he talks, youhave to wonder if it’s a bad performance or one that’s directedto be purposefully off-putting. At one point, you can literally see him readcue cards as he delivers his lines straight to camera (and don’t get me started onthe winking). It’s as bizarre a performance as you’ll see this year. Advertisement Some might understandably dismiss a film about a woman who predicts financial shifts from looking at images of trees, but we are a world thatassigns meaning to images, especially when it comes to the way we analyzemotion pictures. The meta-oddity of “For the Plasma” is certainly not foreveryone, but it’s such a charmingly strange film, a movie that feels devoid ofthe cynicism that often plagues every genre from which it cribs, butparticularly modern sci-fi and low-budget cinema. It is a movie that is happilystrange, joyfully bizarre and particularly unforgettable.