Set mostly in a hyper-desolate Native American reservationtown in Minnesota,Jack Pettibone Riccobono’s “The Seventh Fire” centers on twosometimes reprehensible but extraordinarily vivid men.Rob Brown, whose tribalname is Two Thunderbirds, has spent many of his 37 years incarcerated and willsoon head back to prison, leaving behind a pregnant girlfriend. Kevin FinedayJr., approaching his 18thbirthday, looks up to Rob and almost seemslike his younger self: by all indications, he’s headed for a life of crime,prison and gang activity. He too has a pregnant girlfriend. AdvertisementRoger Ebertfamously described movies as “empathy machines,”and Riccobono’s film is a powerful example of cinema’s ability to grant eventhe diciest of characters their full humanity. Described in a newspaper articleor crime report, Rob and Kevin would inevitably be reduced to two-dimensionaltypes, self-serving lowlifes who contribute nothing to society and are held incontempt even by some closest to them. While not excusing their behavior, “TheSeventh Fire” lets us see both men as complex figures with recognizablefeelings and a poignant sense of their own failings and aspirations. The film has three credited writers (Riccobono along with co-cinematographer Shane Omar Slattery-Quintanilla and editorAndrew Ford), yet itis also nominally a work of nonfiction. Though that may seem a bitcontradictory, it captures the film’s sense of comprising a work of “faction,”forging a drama out of real-life materials. Filmed in catch-as-catch-can veritestyle, it dispenses with documentary techniques such as titles and narration inorder to immerse us into its subjects’ lives. One result of this approach is that its early sectionsespecially feel a bit scattershot. It takes a while of weaving into Rob andKevin’s intertwined lives over a period of months to begin getting a sense ofwhat makes them tick. Yet the dead-end quality of life in Pine Point village—or “P-Town” as it’s known—on the White Earth Indian Reservation is evidentfrom the outset. It’s a bleak place of identical cheaply made houses, whereresidents who want dispense with unwanted furniture simply put it on thecurbside and set it on fire. No wonder the main recreational activity for many localsseems to be taking drugs. This is where Kevin intersects with the communityprofessionally. He’s a new, aspiring part-time dealer, who buys and sells andpartakes himself. (The film contains several scenes of drug taking.) Though onemotivation may be financial, this also seems a matter of image and identity: itgives him a macho role to play around his peers, and Kevin, with his shades,fancy haircuts and hip-hop threads, is nothing if not image-conscious. Theubiquitous posters of De Palma’s “Scarface” here provide an archetype for thenarco-thug as a role model for dispossessed young men. Advertisement Kevin’s home decorations and taste in tattoo imagery showhe also has an awareness of his Native heritage, which in turn suggests that,culturally and perhaps morally, he exists in a divided, conflicted mentalspace. And indeed, he says he can imagine himself going straight and building anormal life. Yet these words seem like wistful daydreams, while reality ispulling him in a darker, easier direction. His father, evidently having beenbetrayed too many times, damns him as a liar beyond the pale. “Even when hetells the truth, he’s lying,” Kevin Sr. bitterly scoffs. Rob leads a similarly divided life, one that shows theunhappy destination that Kevin will reach if he continues on the same road. He’s theproduct of a ruinous upbringing, and here the reviewer must note one of thepeculiar advantages of reviewing films on DVD. In a scene where the film verybriefly glimpses a document concerning Rob’s criminal history, I paused theimage and read the document’s detailed account of the sexual abuse he sufferedas a child, and his subsequent misfortunes in being shuttled through a longsuccession of foster homes. While this history hardly justifies his criminalcareer, it does point to reasons he would have been involved with a criminalgang called the Native Gangster Disciples from an early age. (A side note: Gang activity is alluded to frequently in “TheSeventh Fire” but seldom shown. This is presumably because the filmmakerscouldn’t gain access to other gang members that they did to Kevin and Rob.) Up close, Rob seems a solid guy, never malicious or overtlymenacing. Photos of him in Native costume as a young man suggest pride,geniality and hopefulness, qualities which have been hardened but not erased bythe time he’s facing his fifth trip to prison, for a stay that will keep himinside for over two years. When we follow Rob into the joint, we get to see afacet of his personality that we’ve only heard mentioned before: He’s anaspiring writer, and his words have the power of conviction and a keenawareness of his life’s tremendous challenges and painful lessons. Advertisement “The Seventh Fire” (the title refers a prophecy of theOjibwe tribe) has a list of executive producers that includesNatalie PortmanandTerrence Malick. The latter’s influence can perhaps be discerned in thefilm’s disjunctive, impressionistic narrative and its visual vocabulary, whichmixes lyrical views of snow and fields with sternly realistic looks at thisworld’s grim disarray. But whatever other filmmakers may have had an impact onRiccobono, the film’s indelible depiction of current Native life is anachievement that belongs to him alone.