“At least I understood one thing: We can’t turn back. We canonly move forward.” So observes one of the heroines of “Summertime” (the original French title ofwhich, “La belle saison,” is entirely more apt and evocative) at the very endof the movie. This simple and admirable film, directed byCatherine Corsinifrom a script by the director andLaurette Polmanss, looks back at the early1970s in France, beginning with a scene of rural life at its most sun-dappledand sweaty. Teenage girl Delphine (Izïa Higelin) helps her farmer dad(Jean-Henri Compère) mow and bale hay. During their labors, dad speculates onDelphine’s personal life, to which she responds “I don’t want to get married. Idon’t want to.” He asks if she’s seeing any boys, she truthfully says no, andthen asks what she does when she goes out for late night walks. Advertisement Delphine’s love interest is another girl, and on a latenight a little while later, that girl tells Delphine she’s getting married.Soon enough, Delphine just up and moves to Paris. She takes a dingy cold-waterflat, and finds herself diverted one afternoon by a group of attractive, cheekyyoung women who are pinching male behinds on the street. These inchoatefeminists are up to more than just impromptu provocateur performance art, andDelphine, intrigued, joins up with them. And additionally she takes an interestin Carole (Cécile De France) a charismatic blonde whose apartment—which sheshares with a bearded, politically sympathetic boyfriend—is one of the group’smeeting places. One attribute that initially makes this coming-of-agestory distinctive is the fact that Delphine is hardly a tentative orwishy-washy character. She knows what she wants, and in Paris, one thing shewants is Carole, and her canny but not unaggressive seduction of the womanproves spectacularly successful. The two fall almost immediately into eroticrapture, and Carole’s boyfriend is obliged to put his liberation-mindedpolitics where his mouth, or some other part of his body maybe, is. The affairis going swimmingly when Delphine is summoned home after her dad suffers astroke. This event, at least initially, proves a mere speed bump.Despite her desires, Delphine has a deep connection to her family and theirland, and she resolves to more or less take over the farm as her dadconvalesces—it seems unlikely that he’ll actually recuperate. In short order, Carole joins her, and while Delphine advises her lover that they’re going toneed to “cool it” somewhat, soon they’re making love outdoors and chasing thecows in the nude. It’s pretty edenic for a while. But it can’t last, in part because it never does. Althoughsuspicious locals and a tetchy wannabe boyfriend of Antoine (Kévin Azaïs)occasionally look at Delphine and Carole askance, the apple cart is not upsetin any standard Hollywood way; there’s no call here for didactic speeches aboutpeople loving who they want or any of that sort of thing. The movie is sorelaxed in its storytelling, and so committed to a certain level of realism,that it frequently feels deliberately anti-dramatic. And its realism extends tothe point in the film at which the penny drops. Advertisement The performances in the picture are all solid, but what makes“Summertime” really refreshing is that it doesn’t treat its central romance asanything but wholly normal, despite the attitude of other characters, orindeed, the tenor of the time in which it is set. There’s a distinctive formaldifference, too, in the way this film’s sex scenes are shot and edited and theway those of another recent French drama about a lesbian love affair, “Blue IsThe Warmest Color” were. In “Summertime,” Corsini conveys an ardent eroticismwithout even a hint of attempted titillation. In that sense, this memory playis a kind of object lesson in moving forward.