When it comes to films by twentysomething American actorsmaking their debuts as writer-director-producers,Brady Corbet’s “Childhood of a Leader” is singular in its defiance of conventional expectations. For onething, Corbet doesn’t give himself a role in the film. For another, itscerebral purposefulness and aesthetic audacity make “The Childhood of a Leader” almost theopposite of a Hollywood hopeful’s calling card. Having played roles in films byMichael Haneke(“FunnyGames”),Olivier Assayas(“Clouds of Sils Maria”),Bertrand Bonello(“SaintLaurent”) andRuben Östlund(“Force Majeure”), Corbet makes his first forayinto auteurist filmmaking with a movie that’s far more European than American indie in its sensibility. Beyond taking place in France, it also bitesoff a particularly potent slice of European history to chew on: the time of theTreaty of Versailles, when one world war was being laid to rest even as theconditions for the next were being fashioned. Advertisement The film announces that historical setting with an initialbarrage of newsreel images that are all the more riveting when set to popinnovatorScott Walker’s propulsive, clangorous score, which is an asset throughout.Once the story properly begins, it seems to be in a haven from the conflict thatso recently tore the continent apart. In a peaceful French village, children incostumes are preparing for a Yule pageant (this is Christmas 1918).Among them is a long-haired little boy who soon exits the gathering, and, forreasons not apparent, begins hurling stones at the others. A title identifies this section of the film as “TantrumNumber One”—the first of three tantrums which organize the narrative. Theperpetrator of all three is the little boy of the first scene, who belongs to thefamily of an American diplomat (played by Irish actorLiam Cunningham) in France for the post-war negotiations (which began in January, 1919). He is amarried to a German-born woman (Bérénice Bejo), who undertakes the task ofpunishing the child and making him own up to his malefactions. Very late in the film, we hear the child referred to by nameonce: Prescott. (His parents are never named.) The boy’s identity thus issomething of a mystery throughout, one that the film’s title invites us toponder from the get-go.Whichleader’s childhood are we witnessing? Is he a historical person or afictional/symbolic construct? This review will not reveal answers or possible answers tothe mysteries the film poses, but rather will note that much about Corbet’screationismysterious, opaque,oblique—an approach that’s bound to leave viewers divided. Some may want moreclarity on all fronts: who the characters are, the nature of theirinter-familial problems and the implied connection of their domestic drama tothe great drama of negotiations that will occupy Europe for the next sixmonths. Those who allow Corbet’s tale to establish its own cinematic logic, onthe other hand, will end up relishing the very original way he skirts countlessconventions in recurrently casting the task of meaning-making back on theviewer. Advertisement Much of this is done by glimpsing the central family almostas a servant or visitor would. Little Prescott is willful and headstrong,almost to an obnoxious extent, yet he seems no more disturbed or destructivethan any typical upper-class only son of that era. His parents occupy their owndiscrete worlds within the family home, the mother organizing servants andteachers, the father discussing politics with a visitor (Robert Pattinson, whoplays two roles in the film). The grown-ups converge only seldom to confer onthe care and discipline of the boy, who may be at the center of their concernsyet whose actions never provoke an out-and-out crisis. The fact that the film proceeds from minor incident to minorincident without attempting a typical dramatic architecture or drive is one ofits riskiest conceits. Corbet allows the details to accrue at an unhurriedpace, and the pay-off is that we are drawn into this distant world as we wouldbe if we came to know the family over a period of time. Interestingly, this is done without our being encouraged to identify with any of the main characters;we get close to them even while continuing to observe them from a distance. The film’s visual approach makes the most of thisobservational stance. With its elegant Vermeer lighting, cinematographer LolCrawley renders the family’s house as a character with its own moods and secrets,ones evoked through oblique camera angles and shots that lingerpensively on shadowy rooms well after people have left them. A young British actor named Tom Sweet occupies the center ofthis crepuscular environment with an almost preternatural presence as Prescott. With hisgolden locks and foppish Little Lord Fauntleroy wardrobe, Prescott is sometimesmistaken for a girl, which increases his rages, but there’s nothing unclearabout Sweet’s performance. A truly remarkable piece of work by an actor soyoung, it impressively anchors a film where all of the acting is solid andevocative. Advertisement The script that Corbet wrote withMona Fastvoldisreportedly based on a 1939 piece of the same title by Jean-Paul Sartre, and itscentral idea has been understood as positing a certain psychological backgroundfor fascist leaders. But if anyone looks to Corbet’s film for a rigorous working-out of that notion,they’re bound to emerge disappointed. More than anything, the movie plays as apersonal, poetic look back at a century where history, cinema, psychologyand politics intersected in ways that we are still trying to parse. That it has thecourage of cryptic-ness, and leaves sympathetic viewers intrigued long afterits final images have faded, is enough to mark “The Childhood of a Leader” as anuncommonly promising debut.