“Lights Out” began life as a three-minute short film by David F.Sandberg that was short on such elements as narrative complexity, characterdevelopment and memorable dialogue (I don’t recall a single word being spoken) and long on coming up with more big jolts than would seem possible in such a short running time. It got no small degree of attention andSandberg was given a chance to expand the short into a full-length feature,putting it in such esteemed genre company as the original “When a StrangerCalls” and “The Babadook.” In the cases of those works, the filmmakers foundways to expand on the original shorts that were clever, dramaticallyinteresting and very,veryscary. The problem with “Lights Out” is thatwhile Sandberg is good at creating “BOO!” moments—those instant shockswhere something pops out of nowhere and scares the bejeezus out ofeveryone—they're deployed in the service of a story that has little to offer otherwise, and begin to lose their effectivenessafter a short while. Advertisement As was the case with “When a Stranger Calls,” “Lights Out” beginswith a sequence designed to replicate the original short. Taking place in a factory after hours, instead of an anonymous apartment, it begins as anemployee (Lotta Losten, who starred in the short) sees a mysterious femalefigure in the dark that disappears whenever the lights come back on, and who suddenlygets a lot closer when they go back out again. This time around, however, shesurvives, while the factory owner (Billy Burke) winds up meeting a gruesome end.Just before his demise, however, he was on the phone with his young son, Martin(Gabriel Bateman), talking about how mentally disturbed mom Sophie (MariaBello) has apparently gone off her meds and seems to be talking to an imaginaryfriend named Diana. A few months pass and we learn that Sophie has gotten worse,and her conversations with Diana are so unnerving to Martin, not to mention allthe attendant weird noises and scratches, that he can no longer sleep throughthe night and has been conking out in the middle of the school day. When the school nurse cannot reach Sophie, she contacts hisstepsister Rebecca (Teresa Palmer)—whose own dad disappeared mysteriously yearsbefore and who has been estranged from Sophie since abruptly moving out a fewyears earlier. When Martin mentions Diana, she recognizes the name from herown traumatic childhood years and tries to have Martin stay with her. Thatdoesn’t fly with Sophie, and after she reclaims Martin, Rebecca tries to get tothe bottom of who or what Diana might be and what it has to do with her family.Without getting into too much detail, she is now a creature who can only attackin darkness and who cannot be around any sort of light. After a couple of Dianaattacks, Rebecca, with the help of amiably dopey boyfriend Bret (AlexanderDiPersia) and Martin, decide to hole up in Sophia’s house, lighting up theentire place in the process, in order to get her to start taking her medicationagain and seek treatment for her instability. Alas, Diana thrives when Sophiais at her most disoriented and begins knocking out the lights in order to getrid of the interlopers once and for all. Although Sandberg is the director, the big behind-the-scenes nameon display here is co-producerJames Wan. His genre bonafides include the“Conjuring” and “Insidious” franchises, films that have largely eschewed thegory excesses of his breakthrough hit “Saw” in order to provide low-fi thrills more reliant on atmosphere, small-scale effects (like door slams) and things suddenly appearing from out of nowhere. When done properly, as wasthe case with the original “Conjuring” and “Insidious,” the results can besensationally effective, like the best haunted house ride every created. Donewrong, however, and the results can be more like the sequels to “The Conjuring”and “Insidious”—increasingly tiresome efforts that continually try to wringadditional screams out of material too familiar for its own good. Advertisement It doesn’t take a genius to figure out which of those ways “Lights Out” isheaded after only a few minutes. Part of what made “The Conjuring” so good, forexample, is that even though it was a spooky show at its heart, it still tookthe time to create characters that we cared about, develop a plot that didn’tcompletely strain the bonds of credulity and mix up the scares so that wedidn’t know what to expect next. By comparison, this film has two strongactresses in Teresa Palmer andMaria Bellobut then fails to ever come up witha way to make use of their talents. The story is kind of vague in the way that,despite plenty of exposition, it never quite figures out what Diana is supposed tobe or what the extent of her powers are. As for the scares, there are a coupleof effective shocks. But by the time it finally comes to a close (even though it only clocks in at80 minutes, "Lights Out" still feels long), even the most jittery of moviegoers will findthemselves feeling surprisingly calm and placid. “Lights Out” has been made with a certain degree of style—enoughto make you want to see what Sandberg might be capable of with a betterscreenplay—and it does contain one great moment that pays sly homage to themost famous moment from the classic thriller “Wait Until Dark.” For the mostpart, though, the film is just a tired tread through the usual elements, and whilethat might be adequate for those sitting at home on a Saturday night lookingfor a few cheap thrills on cable, it hardly seems worth the effort of going outto see. And yet, with a current dearth of fright films out there—with theexception of “The Shallows,” an example of a genre entry that managed to take afamiliar premise and turn it into something fresh and exciting—there may beenough pent-up demand for a film of its type to make it a success and begin yetanother franchise. If that is the case, here is hoping that the filmmakersfigure out something clever to do the next time around.