Yeon Sang-ho’s “Train to Busan” is the most purelyentertaining zombie film in some time, finding echoes ofGeorge Romero’s andDanny Boyle’swork, but delivering something unique for an era in which kindness to othersseems more essential than ever. For decades, movies about the undead haveessentially been built on a foundation of fear of our fellow man—your neighbormay look and sound like you, but he wants to eat your brain—but “Train to Busan”takes that a step further by building on the idea that, even in our darkestdays, we need to look out for each other, and it is those who climb over theweak to save themselves who will suffer. Social commentary aside, it’s alsojust a wildly fun action movie, beautifully paced and constructed, with justthe right amount of character and horror. In many ways, it’s what “World War Z”should have been—a nightmarish vision of the end of the world, and a provocationto ask ourselves what it is that really makes us human in the first place. Advertisement Seok-woo (Gong Yoo) is a divorced workaholic. He lives withhis mother and barely spends any time with his daughter Su-an (Kim Su-an). He’sso distant from her that he buys her a Nintendo Wii for her birthday, ignoringthat she has one already, and that he’s the one who bought it for her forChildren’s Day. To make up for this rather-awkward moment, he agrees to giveSu-an what she really wants—a trip to her mother’s home in Busan, 280 milesaway. It’s just an hour train ride from Seoul. What could possibly go wrong?Even the set-up is a thematic beauty, as this is more than just a train ridefor Seok-woo and Su-an—it’s a journey into the past as a father tries to mendbridges and fix that which may be dead. It’s a perfect setting for a zombiemovie. Before they even get to their early-morning train ride,Seok-woo and Su-an see a convoy of emergency vehicles headed into Seoul. Whenthey get to the train, Sang-ho beautifully sets up his cast of characters,giving us beats with the conductors, a pair of elderly sisters, a husband andhis pregnant wife, an obnoxious businessman (a vision of Seok-woo in a coupledecades), and even a baseball team. A woman who’s clearly not well gets on thetrain just before it departs, and just as something else disturbing butgenerally unseen is happening in the station above the platform. Before youknow it, the woman is taking out the jugular of a conductor, who immediatelybecomes a similarly mindless killing machine. These are zombies of the “28 DaysLater” variety—fast, focused, and violent. They replicate like a virus, turningwhole cars of the train into dead-eyed flesh-eaters in a matter of seconds.They are rabid dogs. And you thought your Metra commute was bad. The claustrophobic tension of “Train to Busan” is amplifiedafter a brilliantly staged sequence in a train station in which our survivingtravelers learn that the entire country has gone brain-hungry. They discoverthat the undead can’t quite figure out door handles and are mostly blind, sotunnels and lines of sight become essential. Sang-ho also keeps up his socialcommentary, giving us characters who want to do anything to survive, and otherswho will do what it takes to save others. Early in the film, Seok-woo tells hisdaughter, “At a time like this, only watch out for yourself,” but he learnsthat this isn’t the advice we should live by or pass down to our children.Without spoiling anything, the survivors of “Train to Busan” are only so luckybecause of the sacrifice of others. And the film is thematically stronger thanyour average zombie flick in the way it captures how panic can make monsters ofus all, and it is our responsibility to overcome that base instinct in times ofcrisis. After the near-perfect first hour of “Train to Busan,” the film slows its progress and makes a few stops that feel repetitive, but the journey recoversnicely for a memorable finale. You could call it “Train of the Living Dead” or “'Snowpiercer' with Zombies.” Whatever you call it, if it’s playing in your city and you’veever been entertained by a zombie movie, it’s hard to believe you wouldn’t beentertained by this one. Advertisement