“Jason Bourne” may entice ticket buyers with prospects of a creative and adrenalin-pumping reunion betweenMatt Damonand directorPaul Greengrass, a duo that went beyond typical blockbuster expectationswith “The Bourne Supremacy” and “The Bourne Ultimatum.” Being a fan of both ofthose movies, I too had high hopes for a return to form for the character whoshares a monogram with 007. But it’s mere minutes into “Jason Bourne” that something is wrong. Is it the stoic, nearly dialogue-less (25 lines in theentire film) take on Bourne? Is it the more-hyperactive-than-ever actioncinematography and editing, designed to make every phone call answered andstrident walk taken seemimportant?How about the familiarity of a plot that literally echoes questions thesecharacters have already asked and answered? “Jason Bourne” is a film I kept trying to like. It just wouldn’t let me. Advertisement After learning the truth of his progression from David Webbto superspy Jason Bourne in the previous two Greengrass films and, of course,Doug Liman’s “The Bourne Identity,” JB (Matt Damon) is essentially in hiding.Sure, he pops up for the occasional street fight, but he’s a loner, the kind ofguy with no current attachments, deeply off the grid. (It’s worthnoting that Greengrass and co-writerChristopher Rouseare just barelyinterested in setting up where Bourne has been and what he’s up to in 2016.) It’smere minutes before Nicky (Julia Stiles) drags Bourne back on the radar ofthe nefarious Powers That Be, this time personified by CIA Director RobertDewey (Tommy Lee Jones). Nicky wants to give Bourne even more of the backgroundbehind the Treadstone project, particularly the details about what reallyhappened to Bourne’s father, Richard Webb (Gregg Henry). Of course, Dewey can’t let that happen, and he plans to useCIA agent Heather Lee (Alicia Vikander) and an assassin known merely as “Asset”(Vincent Cassel) to keep his undercover dealings undercover. One of the reasonsthat Dewey is particularly panicked about the return of Bourne is that he’salso deeply involved with a tech pioneer named Aaron Kalloor (Riz Ahmed,currently seen on HBO's “The Night Of”), the head of a company called Deep Dream that promises intense levels of privacy to its customers but has been workingwith the CIA in secret. “Jason Bourne” includes several of today’sgreatest hot button concerns—internet privacy, government intrusion—but they feel like window dressing.Matt Damon said in a press conference in 2007that he thought hisiteration of Jason Bourne was over; he had reached the end point of hischaracter’s journey, his search for his identity. He stated, “… all of thatinternal propulsive mechanism that drives the character is not there, so ifthere was to be another one then it would have to be a completereconfiguration, you know, where do you go from there? For me I kind of feellike the story that we set out to tell is has now been told.” He clearly stillfeels that way. Damon can be a complex, character-driven actor with the rightmaterial, but his heart’s not in this. Tommy Lee Jones feels even less invested with the little bit of character he’s been given, and poor Alicia Vikander might as well be named Plot Device in that we know exactly what herarc is going to be from the minute we see her. Perhaps worst of all, Greengrassfinds a way to waste Vincent Cassel, one of our most physically vibrant andmenacing actors. Cassel does most of his acting scowling through a sniper scope, andisn’t allowed to really break out until the end of the film. Only Riz Ahmed makesany impact on a performance level, doing a lot with very little—watch the wayhe subtly plays a successful businessman who knows the skeletons are about tofall out of his closet. There's a much better version of "Jason Bourne" that focuses on him, contrasting his arc as a man caught up in something greater than himself with our hero's. Advertisement Ahmed registers because one senses an urgency to his character’s plight, which is not the case with therest of the film. Rarely has there been so much intensity in the pursuit of astory that feels like it has no stakes. When “Jason Bourne” is done, ask yourselfwhat everyone was yelling, running and fighting about. Good luck coming upwith a satisfying answer. It’s as if Greengrass and company knew that they couldn't orchestrate an intriguing new arc for their beloved character, so they just repeated one. The film is like Jason Bourne fan fiction in how much itcompletely reworks things we’ve seen before, only with a few more years of cyberterrorismbuzzwords to give viewers the illusion of not just depth but a plot. Even Greengrass’ trademark style feels uninspired. BarryAckroyd (“The Hurt Locker”) is an undeniably talented cinematographer, but hisstyle doesn’t have the same kinetic energy asOliver Wood’s work in theoriginal trilogy, which put us right in the middle of the action. It’s a fineline, but a crucial one; Wood’s camera feels urgent, as if we might getpunched too, whereas Ackroyd’s feels cluttered and desperate. Returningeditor Christopher Rouse (who’s cut all of Greengrass’ films) is the technicalMVP here, giving the film a propulsive energy that could convince some people they’re watching something fun and exciting just by sheer force. However, whenit’s over, even viewers more eager to forgive this failed creative reunion will wonder what it is that they just watched, and what purposeit serves other than financial. And why no one figured out a new, engaging wayto tell a story that’s already been told.