The good news about “Sharknado 4: The 4th Awakens,” the latest inthe frighteningly durable cable movie franchise that began in 2013 with theoriginal “Sharknado” and continued with annual follow-ups, is that it's nowhere near the worst of the unnecessary sequels this summer—itcertainly doesn’t betray audience goodwill like the shockingly lazy “Independence Day: Resurgence” did. But even the most dedicated of trash movie fans will find their patience tested with this third retelling of an initially mildly amusing joke, along with how "Sharknado 4" is just the same combo of demented plotting, dubious special effects and even more dubious guest appearances. Advertisement Set five years after the events of “Sharknado 3,” we learn in anopening crawl that, thanks to the nationwide installation of an “atmosphericstabilizing system” devised by billionaire brainiac Aston Reynolds (TommyDavidson), sharknados are now a thing of the past. With that problem taken careof, Aston has decided to open Shark World, a gaudy theme hotel on the Vegasstrip that runs on clean energy and contains dozens and dozens of sharks, because, why not? Shockingly, a sandstorm develops in the desert thatsomehow eludes the hi-tech systems and soon Las Vegas is overrun with poorlyrendered CGI sharks. Luckily, long-running sharknado vanquisher Fin Shepard(Ian Ziering) just happens to be there with his heretofore unmentioned cousinGemini (Masiela Lusha) to meet up with his son (Cody Linley) and manages to temporarily save the day. This is only the beginning, of course, and soonFin and Co. find themselves traveling from Nevada to Niagara Falls in the hope of quelling the ever-growing storm. If you recall “Sharknado 3: Oh Hell No!”—and God help you if that is thecase—then you know that it ended on a cliffhanger regarding Fin’s wife, April(Tara Reid), and whether or not she would be killed by a falling piece of aspaceship. Although the film tries to be sly about it by not having her in theextended Vegas-set prologue, her presence is hardly a secret since sheappears in the ads and has been doing interviews promoting it—more about thelatter later. As for the details of how she managed to survive certain death, Iwill leave for you to discover on your own, except to note that A.) it has a lotto do with the machinations of her unknown mad scientist father and B.) said father is played byGary Busey. I realize that most people might choose to mock Reid’s performance, butI cannot deny a certain affection for it. While most of the actors are playingto the ridiculousness of the situation, she tackles her role with a weirdintensity that is oddly appealing. She actually comes across as though all ofthe madness might actually be plausible, a trick that I doubt that the likes ofJennifer LawrenceorBrie Larsoncould easily pull off. As has been the case with the previous “Sharknado” sequels, thecast has been jam-packed with a number of mid-level (at best) celebrities, who hope that making an appearance here will lend them some hip status.While I am sure that I missed several cameos along the way—there are evidentlystars of wrestling, YouTube and reality television, areas of entertainmentwhere my knowledge is minimal at best—you can see the likes ofCheryl Tiegs, DavidHasselhoff and several Hasselh-offspring, former “Baywatch” co-stars AlexandraPaul and Gena Lee Nolin,Wayne Newton,Al Roker(one of several NBC/Universalplugs on display), Carrot Top,Steve Guttenberg,Gilbert Gottfried, Vince Neil,Lloyd Kaufmanand the legendaryAdrian Zmed. At one point, Paul Shaffer showsup as a street musician, and while I won’t spoil what happens to him, I will saythat in terms of raw dramatic power, the scene rivals his former TV boss’ turnin the immortal “Cabin Boy.” There is also an appearance by clueless StaceyDash—sorry, I mean Stacey “Clueless” Dash—as none other than the mayor ofChicago. As someone who works in that greatest of cities, I began to wonderwhat the mayor could have done to deserve being played by the likes of her.Then I remembered. Well played, SyFy. Advertisement Perhaps realizing that they had already taken their one-joke premise to the breaking point, returning screenwriter ThunderLevin and directorAnthony C. Ferranteattempt to beef up the narrativewith two running jokes. In one, the various sharknados acquire somenew, bizarre elements which leads to people under attack by bouldernados, oilnados, firenados, lightningnados, lavanadosand, perhaps inevitably, cownados. In the other, countless references to otherand generally better movies are shoehorned into the proceedings. As youmight surmise from the title, there are a lot of “Star Wars” jokes on displaybut there are also references to the likes of “Titanic,” “Star Trek,”“Ghostbusters,” “The Wizard of Oz,” “The Texas Chain Saw Massacre” (with anemphasis on the underrated 1986 sequel), “Apocalypse Now,” aStephen Kingclassic that must go unnamed and, oddly enough, “Network.” Some may find thesereferences and in-jokes to be irritating; others may want to compete withtheir friends to see who can make the longest list of them. All I'm saying is that I am adding an extra half-star to the rating just for the“Buckaroo Banzai” reference. A critical evaluation of “Sharknado 4: The 4th Awakens” isabsolutely pointless—while fans of the series may get something out of the sequel,there's nothing on display that could possibly sway naysayers or those whosehave avoid the series so far. To all, "Sharknado 4" will be forgottenin a month or so. Frankly, the most memorable thing about it is the recentdust-up that occurred when Reid did an interview withJenny McCarthyon thelatter’s satellite radio show; it quickly devolved into a mutual insultfest. Now, while this ranks far lower on the celebrity feud scale than, say,Taylor Swiftvs.Kim Kardashian(Team Swift all the way) or Taylor Swift vs.Katy Perry(which I would like to offer my services as a mediator), I am convincedthat there is only one way to settle this particular contretemps—cast McCarthyin the inevitable (and not-so-subtly promised) “Sharknado 5” and let the sparksfly. Besides, it should give McCarthy’s career just the shot in the arm itneeds.