"The most merciful thing in the world … is theinability of the human mind to correlate all its contents."- H.P. Lovecraft "On The Silver Globe," now playing in a jaw-dropping and necessary restoration at Lincoln Center, concerns no less asubject than the beginning of civilization, the foundation of religion andman's fundamental violence. Its science fiction scenario is well worn:astronauts land on a foreign planet and, with no means of getting home,accidentally create a new human race from scratch and become mythic figures,like gods, in their lifetimes.Andrzej Żuławski, the mad genius behind thislunatic "Birth of a Nation," was forever changed by the experience ofmaking it and having it halted in its tracks by authorities. There's a verygood chance you too will be altered in some small but crucial way afterwitnessing its boundless innovation. Advertisement The first 'act' is Żuławski's "Rite ofSpring," a gonzo creation myth. A brutal tribe of hunters finds an artifact,which they believe has fallen from the sky, and bring it to two scientists totrade for drugs. The two men discover that the fallen object is a sort of film,a record of a failed mission to another planet with breathable air that wasmeant to be a replacement Earth. Earth itself has fallen into decay and peoplego through the motions of capitalist indulgence, imprisoned by outdated socialcustoms, because they can't come up with a new way of life. Of course, themission to find a new home goes terribly awry. Only three astronauts, Marta, Piotr andJerzy, survived the landing on the new world, and filmed their misbegotten tripwith body cameras. They make their way through miles of rough terrain to theocean and dig themselves out a place to live on the beach. Marta, pregnant byone of the casualties of their spaceship crash, has a son who ages twice asrapidly as he would have on Earth. Piotr is killed in a raid by a phantom enemyand Marta dies in childbirth, leaving Jerzy and his rationalism the only saneforce in a world that comes to view him as an intruder. Marta's son grows tomanhood and impregnates her three daughters—two by Piotr, one by Jerzy—andsoon there is a functioning feudal tribe that views Jerzy as a kind of wizard,full of knowledge that could be dangerous. Aged to decrepitude, he retreats tothe damaged spacecraft that brought him to the new world, and sends histransmissions back to Earth. The second act concerns Marek, the next man tomake it to this sister planet. He comes down from the same mountainJerzy retreated into hundreds of years ago. A group of fanatics has beenwatching the foot of the mountain the whole time, believing that their savior wouldreturn from the same place to which Jerzy escaped. Marek is treated like a godby the squabbling civilization that has bloomed since Jerzy's death. He is putin charge of a military operation to crush their enemies, telepathic birdmencalled Sherns, who have mated with their women to create half-bird soldiers.Marek is little more than a pawn in a series of games, this bloody reformationonly the loudest. While he's off conquering the Shern city, Żuławski takes usback to Earth, where we learn the only reason Marek was sent to this distantstar in the first place was because his girlfriend, an actress, was sleepingwith a fellow officer and they wanted to get rid of him to continue theiraffair. In the final act, they must live with each other knowing they sentMarek to possibly die a million miles from anything he knows or loves, whileMarek grows into a sort of Christ/Buddha figure who is flooded with informationabout existence and sees that he is not in control of his own destiny. Helearns too late that the political systems he's been aiding and destroying haveminds of their own. The exceptionalism of the human being is as much a myth ashis arrival from the mountain. Advertisement "On The Silver Globe" is not onlyone of the greatest science and moral fiction movies ever made, it alsopresents a rare entropic quandary. After his damning second feature "TheDevil" equated the Polish government to an imp whispering vile conspiracyin the ear of a shell-shocked prisoner, director Żuławski was cordiallyinvited to get the hell out of Poland and never come back. His permanent exilewasn't to be. When his next film, 1975's French-funded "That MostImportant Thing: Love" performed well abroad, the cultural authoritieswaved a white flag and let the prodigal back in their borders. He knew exactlywhat he was going to do when he got back home. He set about adapting his great uncleJerzy's sci-fi novels, "The Lunar Trilogy," some of the mostcelebrated and influential European cult tomes ever written. It took him twoyears to write the script and have it meet the strict dictums set forth by thecultural ministry, and the shoot itself was no picnic. In 1977, with four-fifths of hisfilm complete, Żuławski's production was shut down by Vice Minister of culturalaffairs Janusz Wilhelmi and he was kicked out of Poland for a second time.Seems Wilhelmi didn't dig the screenplay's equating state and religiousauthority, nor its insistence that both are corruptible constructs (cavesfigure heavily into the action, students of philosophy). The really interestingpart comes next. Żuławski rebounded with the deeply wounded and woundingparanoid divorce drama "Possession," which led him down a path of similarlyabrasive psychodramas about men in thrall to women—stand-ins for his artisticobsessions—and the political obstacles to their romantic unions. Mostconclude with physical and mental breakdowns and murder. In the late '80s, with three such films of shrieking skullduggery under his belt, the former enfantterrible returned to what might have been his masterpiece and put as much of ittogether as he could, filling in the missing plot points with narration laidover footage of modern Poland. The patchwork "On The Silver Globe"debuted at Cannes in 1988 and has been haunting viewers ever since. Żuławski, apparently on the wavelength herode while making this outlandish masterpiece once again, followed it up withan adaptation of Modest Mussorgsky's "Boris Godunov," a stylisticsequel. Both films share an interplay between impossible color and thick,Dutch monochrome, musical invention, a historical-philosophical bedrock, andespecially cinematography, which goes tear-assing through scenes ofsybaritic suffering as if strapped to a Plymouth Hemi 'Cuda. If justreassembling the film primed him to make "Boris Godunov," what mighthe have done if he'd been allowed to finish the film in '77? It would havepredicted the entirety of the 1980s dystopian trend. Everything & everyonefrom "The Road Warrior" toPaul Verhoeven, "CannibalHolocaust" to Piotr Szulkin,Ridley ScotttoTerry Gilliam, allappearto owe it a debt, but no one who looks like they might have been influenced byits madcap secrets could have seen a frame of the film until after the voguefor post-apocalyptic yarns had morphed into the cyberpunk trend of the 1990s.Together the two strands, personal and communal, form a tantalizing piece ofcinephile string theory. What if this post-punk j'accuse had escaped into theblood stream of the filmgoing public in 1977? Would he have finished adaptingthe trilogy? Advertisement Looking at the restored images and hearingthe renewed soundtrack of the newly restored print one can at least imagine howaudiences must have felt seeing it for the first time. The film existed foryears as an oppressively colorblind dirty secret; the DVD transfer looked likesomething smuggled out of Poland in the guts of a political prisoner. Now it'sas complete and luscious as it could ever be and for that we should all bethankful. Its fusion of the primal and the futuristic is still a shockingdesign to behold, as is its proto-found footage first act, picking up whereGodard left off and predicting every horrific depiction of "reality"as given to us by amateur cameramen gleefully filming the deaths of theirfriends in movies like the aforementioned "Cannibal Holocaust,""Cloverfield" and "Apollo 18." The astronaut'sheartbreaking failure to create sense and order in a temporarily godlessuniverse mirrors the found footage trope of filming one's own death. Just as his heroes throw their hands andfaces toward the sky, hoping for information from the infinite to render theirplight if not understandable than at least heroic, Żuławski was after a new,more honest form of filmmaking. His mix of earthy DIY production design (thefilm is full of fright wigs, face paint, abandoned buildings, primitive goreeffects, and jerry-rigged space-age technology) and wailing philosophicalinquiry (a hoarse interrogation of the universe's meaninglessness) unearths oneawful truth after another about the prioritization of our baser instincts. Is thelove of the astronaut and the actress any more or less important than Marek'sattempts to bridge a gap between the Sherns and the subhumans to whom he actsas a god? Could there ever be any chance of restarting the human race and notarriving at our embattled, ignorant worst? Are war, rape, treachery and tortureingrained in the human brain the way turtles always crawl to the sea at birth?Could we ever hope to isolate and best the immemorial strand of our geneticcode that leads us into ruin? In his typically acidic way, Żuławski hasanswered in the affirmative. It's in the way Andrzej Korzyński's scoreexorcises the simple longing behind the most complex ideas and images; it's inthe way he trusts the audience's imagination to fill in the missing pieces ofhis narrative. He needs us to complete his film. Even if he accuses humans ofhaving "murdered" his film and fills his movie with one horrificcrime after another, he knows that only we can bring it back to life. Marek andJerzy may suffer for trying to mold a new human race in their image, tountangle our best and worst instincts and learn everything about existence, butŻuławski made a living at it, and left us this most important text as a legend.Even out of time, even incomplete, even now that its director is gone for good,"On The Silver Globe" endures and its beautiful power will never dim.Should anyone ever want to understand how this mess we call modern life came tobe, one could do worse than to watch this movie. More simply, as my fellowRogerEbert.comwriterGlenn Kennysaid to me when the credits started to roll at thepress screening, "It's everything, isn't it?" And then some. Advertisement