The “land” to which this movie’s title refers is not a plotof arable property. No, it’s the diminutive of Cleveland, lately the site ofthe Republican National Convention, dubbed by some wags “the mistake by thelake,” a site where ostensibly the heart of rock and roll is stillbeating, and the non-virtual site of the actual Rock and Roll Hall of Fame,such as it is. But seriously, Cleveland doesn’t get enough credit as a seminalplace in American culture—it did after all spawn Ghoulardi and Pere Ubu, whoserespective impacts are still felt today. Advertisement None of those aspects of Cleveland, I should make clear now,are made manifest or even alluded to in this movie written and directed bySteven Caple Jr. Nevertheless, it’s good to see this great American citythat’s rarely depicted in movies set and shot here, even if the film is aboutthe poor and desperate underside of that city. Young skateboard enthusiast Cisco (Jorge Lendeborg, Jr.) isflunking out of trade school, but he’s got his sights set elsewhere, as do histhree similarly slack-seeming pals Junior, Patty Cake, and Boobie. (“You’ve gotone more year to be a certified welder,” a school counselor tells one, and helooks as thrilled by the news as you would.) They are trying to break intotournament boarding, but the entry fees for even small-time events are beyondthe means of these poor kids. So they’ve taken to boosting cars and sellingthem to a tightwad chop-shop operator. It’s dangerous business, and Cisco feelsbad about it, largely for moral reasons. He’s got a firsthand glimpse of whatthe shadow side of life can do to a person, having lost his mom to a drugoverdose. When he and his buddies find a stash of very high quality “molly” inthe trunk of one car they steal, it’s decision time. Cisco decides to sell offthe drugs. I know what you’re thinking: it’s always stealing the wrongcar from the wrong person, who’s always got a large amount of the wrong thingstashed in the car. And it’s true: “The Land” won’t win any awards fororiginality of premise. And the movie, after that premise comes into play,tends to meander more than a suspense story ought to. It meanders for the bestreason, though, which is to help the viewer get to know the characters,including that of “Momma,” the drug queen who also has local renown as a foodtruck entrepreneur, played byLinda Emond, the Tony-nominated actress who’s alsoa compelling feature of “Indignation,” also opening this week. Soundness ofrationale notwithstanding, Caple doesn’t always achieve his aim. Some folks inCisco’s world do register strongly: his self-righteously sober quasi-stepdad,played byKim Coates, and that fellow’s streetwalker companion, a raw ErykahBadu.Michael K. Williamsis his usual striking self as the father of one ofCisco’s crew. But other stuff fares less well, including the materialconcerning the diminutive Junior; his character’s bearing and circumstancesmake him an instant cliché, despite actor Moises Aria’s best efforts to bringhim to life. Caple also has a tendency to show his influences on hissleeve, as with a shot from the point of view of the inside of a car trunk. ButI’m giving this movie a recommendation anyway, because the talent on display isnot insignificant, both in front of and behind the camera. And also becauseCaple brings his perhaps familiar narrative to an unexpected, and to my mind refreshing, conclusion. He’s a filmmaker worth watching, here and in the future.