Over the years, I have found that quiet post-apocalyptic scenarios, which focus more on characters tryingto survive in their new circumstances, are usually more interesting than those interested in hardware and spectacle. I'm thinking about films like“Testament” (1983), a powerful drama in whichJane Alexanderplayed a suburbanmom trying to keep her family together in the wake of a nuclear attack; “Miracle Mile” (1988), a wonderful thriller about a man who inadvertentlyreceives a phone call claiming that a nuclear war has been launched and hiscity will be hit in just over an hour; and “Seeking a Friend for the End of theWorld” (2012), a quirky and sadly underrated comedy-drama about people dealingwith love and loss in the last few days before an asteroid hits Earth anddestroys all life. The similarly low-key Canadian import “Into the Forest” maynot quite hit the heights of those examples, but this story of a pair ofmismatched sisters forced to face the unthinkable is, at least for most of itsrunning time, a strong, smart and moving end-of-the-world drama that is furtherbolstered by strong performances from co-starsEllen PageandEvan Rachel Wood. Advertisement Based on a novel byJean Heglandand set in the not-too-distantfuture, the film introduces us to Nell (Page) and Eva (Wood), two sistersliving in a house hidden away in the woods of NorthernCalifornia with their recently widowed father (Callum Keith Rennie). Althoughthe distance from the nearest town inspires them to keep plenty of provisionson hand, the sisters are hardly the survivalist type—Nell is online all thetime studying for her exams while Eva is relentlessly preparing for an upcomingdance recital. All of that changes one day when the power mysteriously goesout. At first, this seems to be just a minor annoyance, but not only does itnever come back on, there is talk that the entire country—possibly even theworld—is still in the dark. Although the loss of power puts a crimp in theirimmediate plans, Nell and Eva are in a slightly better position than others inthe area—as we realize during a creepy visit to the nearby town for whatprovisions still remain—thanks to the resourcefulness of their father. When that lifeline is soon cruelly cut off, the two areforced to face an uncertain future in which they have to figure out how tosurvive on their own. They facedangers ranging from starvation to illness to inhumanity within other people. “Into the Forest” was written and directed by Canadian filmmakerPatricia Rozema, whose previous efforts have included the charming comedy-drama“I’ve Heard the Mermaids Singing” and a very good adaptation ofJane Austen’s“Mansfield Park.” Instead of framing the story as an us-against-them narrativewith the sisters coming together to fight off the outside dangers, Rozema ismore interested in watching two people who have little in common beyond sharedgenetic material trying to coexist at a time when even the smallestand most seemingly innocuous things—a visit from Nell’s boyfriend (MaxMinghella), watching a home movie with a generator that uses precious gasolineor a hoarded piece of candy—can have serious consequences. Insteadof making Nell and Eva into instant saints, she allows them to have the momentsof anger, prickliness and selfishness that any of us would most likely succumbto given the circumstances. While all of this is going on,she also creates a quiet but palpable sense of menace regarding the worldoutside the house, where even the slightest odd noise can be the harbinger ofsome potential horror from which they cannot easily escape. Adding to the power of the story are the performances from Pageand Wood. At first glance, the casting might seem to be a bit questionable—bothactresses are clearly a few crucial years older than the characters they're playing and they don’t exactly look much like sisters, either. And yet, whilethey may not resemble siblings that much, that aspect is quickly forgottenbecause of how deftly they create the idea of long-standing familyties—the kind that occasionally choke as well as bind, and find themselvesbeing both tested and strengthened under extreme circumstances. At first, thetwo are clearly playing to their strengths—Page is the more outwardly strongand pragmatic Nell while Wood is the dreamier and more ethereal Eva—but as thestory progresses and circumstances change, they find new dimensions to thecharacters as well. Page brings an unexpected vulnerability to Nell withoutsacrificing her basic strength while Wood, in the best role she has had inquite a while, gives Eva the kind of nerve and determination one wouldhardly expect her to possess based on our initial glimpses of her. Callum Keith Rennie andMax Minghellaare also good in their smaller roles, and there is another memorablesupporting turn fromMichael Eklundas a local who figures in the film’s mostharrowing moment, one that Rozema thankfully does not milk for cheap thrills orempty heroics. Advertisement The one major problem with “Into the Forest,” the one that keepsit from making that final leap of good movie to a potentially greatone, is that the final third is just not quite as strong as the stuff thatprecedes it. Rozema doesn’t seem to have as sturdy of a grip on thissection, and while the ingredients are certainly there for a satisfyingconclusion, they just don’t quite come together in an entirely satisfyingmanner. (Of course, one could argue that by giving viewers an uncertainconclusion, Rozema is attempting to put viewers in the footsteps of herprotagonists.) That problem aside, “Into the Forest” is an undeniably interesting,oftentimes affecting and, yes, unapologetically feminist take on thepost-apocalyptic narrative. Unfortunately, by coming out in the middle of the summer opposite blockbuster banalities like “Jason Bourne,” there is a good chance it will come and go from theaters. But find a way to see "Into the Forest," for it is the kind of film that will not only stick with you, it will even make you think.