“Indignation,” the directing debut of the longtimeindependent film producer and executiveJames Schamus, is a movie soinsistently out of step with contemporary American cinema as to be consideredpractically defiant. Adapted from a novel byPhilip Roth(his 2008 book of thesame name and his penultimate novel if we are to believe that he is now finallydone with writing) “Indignation” is, like much of Roth’s late work, concernedwith, or perhaps the better phrase is “consumed by” mortality and itsinevitability. Advertisement Marcus Messner is a young man of great promise in Roth’sNewark, New Jersey—the author’s own Yoknapatawpha County, it turned out—firstseen, or at least presumably first seen, attending the funeral of one of hishigh-school buddies, who’s been killed in the early years of the Korean War.The movie actually opens with a scene of single-soldier battle overseas, withframings that recall the work ofSamuel Fuller. In any event, that conflict isone thing that Marcus needn’t worry about. The son of a butcher, Marcus has ascholarship to the Ohio college of Winesburg, and a draft deferment to match.Marcus is a devoted son and an exceptional student. He behaves well and holdshimself to what he considers a high ethical standard. His only real issue,beyond his increasingly overprotective-to-the-point-of-frantic father, is hisattachment to his intellectual independence, a pronounced disinclination to “goalong to get along.” That and his rather understandable sexual naiveté. We aretalking about 1951. At Winesburg (the allusion toSherwood Andersonisdeliberate, as is the depiction of the place as an ideal place from which toleave), Marcus balks at joining a Jewish fraternity and fervently pursues hisstudies, but becomes enamored of a coed named Olivia (Sarah Gadon), a beguiling and brilliantyoung woman who chastises Marcus: “You are not a simple soul and you have nobusiness being here.” She does not know how tragically right she turns out tobe. And not just about Marcus. An episode of amorous generosity on Olivia’spart throws Marcus into a tizzy, and his inability to process it sets in motion aseries of events that … well, as Marcus himself informs the viewer in voice-overnarration early on, his own death will be the finish of them. The title “Indignation” refers not only to Marcus’ state ashe’s forced to justify himself to everyone around him, including a pioussophist dean of students (Tracy Letts), but also to the work’s own attitude. The novel’smeasured prose carries a subtext of absolute rage at the arbitrary unfairnessof fate. Schamus, who also wrote the screenplay to this film, is veryconcerned, or one might say consumed by, the idea of carrying this over to thescreen. So he has constructed his film of Roth’s book in a style that ismeasured to the point of near solemnity. The movie moves very slowly. Much ofits action—and the action largely consists of two, sometimes more, people engagingin impassioned and ever deepening conversation—is captured in long takes,carefully composed medium shots in which the actors are free to breathe andmove but which still constrain them somewhat. A film scholar before he became afilmmaker, Schamus has written beautifully about the work of the DanishdirectorCarl Theodor Dreyer, and his method here harks back to the starkplainness of a work like “Ordet” and sometimes even recalls the overttheatricality of the director’s last film “Gertrud.” Drawing superbperformances from each and every one of his actors, Schamus meticulously makesevery shot, and every gesture contained within that shot, count. Slowly, heaccrues irony after irony in the details. The two Jewish upperclassmen Marcusfirst rooms with seem interesting enough fellows at first, with ideas of theirown; eventually they are revealed as conventional hypocrites, and as one ofthem shows his true colors, the frame reveals, for the first time, a dinkylittle reproduction of Caspar David Friedrich’s “Wanderer above the Sea of Fog”the fellow has taped to the wall by his bunk. Advertisement Schamus’ commitment to a style, and to the material, yieldspotent results. The cast cannot be commended enough:Logan Lermankeeps adistinct and uncallow likeability even when Marcus is deliberately beinginsufferable. As Olivia, Sarah Gadon is spectacular, depicting a young woman whoknows her own mind but can’t control it from taking her to terribly darkplaces. The playwright and actor Tracy Letts displays masterful control as thedean, a fellow who really is insufferable, through and through, but is also aman of his time, and for his time and for all that was awful of his time. Asthe movie draws to its inexorable conclusion, Schamus reveals one overtnarrative trick he had up his sleeve the whole time, and if you’ve keyed in tothe movie’s rhythms, it’s quite a devastating one. It brings home all theindignation of Roth’s work, and adds some fresh fuel to that fire.