“I want to teach you how to hold the camera.” That’s whatSteve Gleason, the former safety for the NewOrleans Saints, tells his wife Michel Varisco in an early scene from “Gleason,”a documentary about his struggle with ALS (Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis),formerly known as Lou Gehrig’s disease. He’s pointing the camera at Michel atfirst, and then he gives it over to her, and suddenly he’s looking us right inthe eye. “A good filmer asks good questions to get really good material,” Stevetells Michel. And wow, does “Gleason” make good on that bit of advice. Advertisement This marvelous documentary, directed by J.Clay Tweel, takesall of its cues from that early scene. Steve Gleason retired from the NationalFootball league after eight seasons and has been struggling with ALS since, trying to raise public awareness of the disease and agitate for a curewith help from Team Gleason, a nonprofit group founded by Michel. The wholemovie is as unaffected and direct as a documentary canbe. Nothing is off-limits here: moments of doubt and fear, disgust at failuresof the body, the challenges that a debilitating illness poses to marriage andparenting (Gleason’s son, River, was born shortly after his diagnosis, andfigures heavily in the story). Like “Life Itself,” about this site’s founder, “Gleason”intertwines biographical flashbacks (including Steve's pivotal blocked puntduring the Saints’ first post-Hurricane Katrina game, which led the city to erect a statue in his honor) and present-day scenes ofits subject enduring humiliating medical treatments. He gets through it allwith patience, humor, and the support of a loving partner. One of the comic high points, incredibly, is ascene where a nurse arrives to give Steve an enema. The movie takes us inside Steve’s support network, whichthey refer to as their “Badass Unit,” and expands outward from the physical toencompass the emotional and spiritual reckoning that families encounter whenone of their members is stricken. A key section charts Steve’s thorny relationshipto his father, Mike, who concedes that his son was raised in “a prettydysfunctional household” but appears to have been forgiven now (to his astonishment)because of the love he shows for his son during the toughest stretch ofhis life. Mike makes his son's survival job one, leaving no stone unturned (including a flirtation with faith healing)as he considers the possibility that he might outlive his child. Meanwhile, Michel serves as the anchor not just for Steve's treatment but for the audience's journey, honestly confessing her doubts and fears even as she soldiers on.The relationship between fathers and sons is the marrow ofthis emotional movie, expressed not just in Steve’s relationship with his ownfather and son, but in an interview withPearl Jamfrontman Eddie Vedder bySteve (a talented, self-taught filmmaker himself) about his own troubledrelationship with his dad. This is a tearjerker of a film but also a joyousone.Advertisement