Adepts of tech Newspeak will immediately recognize the titleof this movie as an unsubtle play on Google’s in-house corporate ethos slogan,“Don’t Be Evil.” Not the cleverest usurpation of a concept, and the movie,directed and written byMartin Owenfrom “an original idea” (so original itgets its own opening credit card) by executive producer Jonathan Willis,steadily maintains that lack throughout. Not a great thing if your aim is tomake a satirically pointed sci-fi horror movie. At least that’s what I think this thing was supposed to be.After a badly staged simulation of an issue-driven chat show, in which anagitated male predicts a generation of uneducated obese kids, the movie cuts toa scene out of one of those debt-consolidation television commercials. A stackof envelopes with “Past Due” stamped in red sits atop the blond fauxwood grain of a generic kitchen table. An ailing older woman is seen through anopen bedroom door, and a young woman outside that door takes a phone call, whileher computer screen silently shows the music video for Kim Wilde’s “Kids inAmerica.” 1994, what a year that was. Why this Millennial, named Jenny, hasmuch interest in it is a question that will, sort of, be addressed. Non-cleverly.The phone call is for a job prospect—ah, overdue-bill problem perhapssolved!—at something called the Posterity Project. Jenny (Elizabeth Morris, oneof the film’s co-writers) eagerly makes the appointment, only to meet withobfuscation once inside the designated building. The “there’s no Posterity Project” here bitis the first of several something-is-happening-but-she-don’t-know-what-it-isjabs to which the movie never ends up delivering meaningful follow-ups. Advertisement Eventually Jenny gets situated, and meets her coworkers, orrather co-candidates—the appointment is for a job audition, and the job is“chaperoning” a group of academically gifted students enrolled in the Project’sAugmented Reality education program. This being the, or an, ostensible solutionto the fat-kid problem the fellow in the opening scene was ranting about. Allthe participants in the program wear virtual reality glasses, and much of thefilm is shot via the point of view of the characters wearing the gizmos, whichallows the frame to be filled with semi-fancy computer graphics and also meansthe cinematographer doesn’t have to make a lot of different lens choices. Jenny’scolleagues are Tiggs (Kara Tointon)—who prefers the diminutive to her given name, which isAntigone, and hold on, it gets worse—a perky/feisty young woman, and Darby (Eliot James Langridge), aguy with one of those au courant post-Nazi shaved-side haircuts who’s so surlyand anti social it’s hard to believe he’d get past an interview for a gigmopping up at White Castle, but whatever. This trio’s challenge is to lookafter a group of busy-interacting-with-air (because augmented reality andeverything) young geniuses, including one named Cassandra (Isabelle Allen). (I told you it getsworse.) Shepherding the recruits is Ariel (Jamie Bernadette), who’s kind of like Siri with avisual component. All the ingredients are here, I guess, for an involving andtricky thriller in which actual reality opposes itself to computer-drivenreality, not to mention all the potential for social commentary such a scenarioengenders.David Cronenbergsprings to mind, as do the post-nuke “special”children bred and trained inJoseph Losey’s early ‘60s “The Damned.” “Let’s BeEvil” does not get within swinging, spitting, or any kind of distance of thoseaforementioned films. There’s no reliable conceptual framework, no actualopposition between villain and protagonist, not much of anything but thecomputer graphics, the flickering lights and eventual blackouts andcrawl-through-the-ventilation scares that worked a lot better in the likes of“Demons 2” than they do here. The movie’s relentless one-note tone makes itsfinal twist, such as it is, entirely predictable and pat. I was surprised to seethat this picture had an unrolling at this year’s Slamdance Film Festival,where once upon a time pictures such asChristopher Nolan’s “Following” andJonathan Weiss’ “The Atrocity Exhibition” unspooled. Standards are sinkingeverywhere these days, it seems.