Clément Cogitore’s strong “Neither Heaven Nor Earth” remindsone of “L’Avventura” and “About Elly” in how those films use disappearanceas a thematic tool more than an unsolved mystery demanding resolution.Cogitore defines his setting well, focusing on the wind, sun and sand ofAfghanistan 2014 as a French group of soldiers keep the fragile peace andplan for departure. It’s a world that seems mostly harmless, but an earlyshoot-out with Taliban in the hills makes it clear that the potential for danger remains. It’sin this unique setting, a place that inherently feels like purgatory for thosestuck there, that Cogitore crafts a tense tale of faith and mystery. Advertisement After an encounter with a man and his sheep who get tooclose to their guard post, a pair of French soldiers in Afghanistan, well,disappear. One night, they’re watching figures on the horizon. The nextmorning, they are simply gone. Satellite images of the area offer no insight.The commander, a confident man named Antarès (Jérémie Renier), is naturallyconvinced that they were kidnapped by local opposing forces. Through atranslator, he interrogates the denizens of a local village, but his men havesimply vanished off the face of the Earth. He orders everyone to keep theirdisappearance secret until he can figure out what is going on. Then more mendisappear. In this rock-strewn middle of nowhere, a man partnered withanother soldier in a bunker steps outside to urinate. We watch him through thedoor, knowing that danger—both physical and possibly supernatural—lurks overthe horizon. Our movie-watching sensibility trains us to fear for hissafety. We’re in the bunker, he’s out in the dangerous world. He returns to thebunker and his fellow soldier is gone. This scene really sets the tone for “NeitherHeaven Nor Earth” given it’s unbroken nature—we know no one could have come inand kidnapped this man—and the way Cogitore smartly keeps us in the bunker,wheresomethinghappens. Exactly what that something is starts to drive Antarèscrazy. As fear starts to overtake the soldiers underneath him, this practicalleader questions what he knows as true—men don’t just disappear. “NeitherHeaven Nor Earth” is effective more as a study of fear and failed leadershipthan it is as a horror movie. In fact, if it has a weakness it’s that audiencesexpecting it to build to something tenser or even terrifying will bedisappointed. It drags a bit around the hour mark when it needs to be buildingtension and/or deepening its thematic points. There’s also an underdevelopedsubplot of sleep deprivation, in that everyone becomes convinced that sleep-time is when people are taken by whatever force is removing them from this barrenlandscape. Terrified and sleep-deprived in a war-torn country? There are timeswhen I wanted those feelings to register more primally and emotionally thanCogitore seems interested in doing. Advertisement Most of the directorial flaws and arguably wastedopportunity of the final act of “Neither Heaven Nor Earth” are offset by the unshowy,grounded way in which Renier grounds the film. A regular collaborator of theDardennes brothers (“L’Enfant,” “The Kid with a Bike”), Renier has the naturalcharisma of a born leader that’s fascinating to see undermined by the uniquesituations he finds himself in. While Cogitore generally allows viewers toplay with the film’s themes to whatever degree they desire (don’t all mendisappear to some extent during war, for example), Renier has to play the realityof the situation, and does so admirably. It’s his plight—that of a mantrained to be rational but now faced with the irrational—that keeps “NeitherHeaven Nor Earth” moving. And like those films that inspired it that Imentioned in the introduction, it’s not the solution to the mystery that matters butwhat the mystery itself does to those who face it.