A skillfully written and acted gay love story about twoyoung men of Chinese ancestry,Ray Yeung’s “Front Cover” has a title thatevokes the differences in its main characters. Ryan (Jake Choi), a New Yorkfashion stylist, aims his energies toward the front covers of magazines. Ning(James Chen), a movie star from China, also projects himself into the publiceye, but uses his image as something else—a cover for his real self. The film begins by immersing us in Jake’s world, whereopenly gay men are the rule rather than the exception. He works hard stylingmodels for photo shoots, and though he seems to be climbing the career ladderadroitly, it’s clear he’s not completely established yet: one misstep and hecould go hurtling downward again. Advertisement That’s why every job is a challenge, and the assignment tostyle Ning, an Asian star hoping to break into the American market, is particularly tricky. Ning’s handler tells Ryan that Ning has already firedone stylist, and now he definitely wants one with a Chinese background. ButRyan obviously doesn’t consider himself particularly Chinese, and when he meetsNing for the first time in a Chinatown restaurant, the situation seems designedto thwart rather than establish communication: the star has brought aboisterous, obsequious entourage with him and forces endless amounts of foodon everyone. The entourage creates an immediate barrier the next time thetwo meet, forcing Ryan to say that he can only work with the star if they caninteract one-on-one. Ning gives way on that front, but soon has his ownobjection: he doesn’t like that Ryan is so open about his “homo side.” This is not only a clash of personalitiesbut of cultures as well. Ning looks askance at gay men holding hands on thestreet, something evidently still less common in Beijing than in NewYork. Yet Ning has reasons—ones perhaps going beyond strictly career concerns—foradapting to this environment, at least temporarily, so he graduallyaccommodates himself to Ryan and his milieu. Yet it’s Ryan who’s in for the biggest changes. His lifeseems to be consumed by obsessive work and desultory socializing. Though he’sattractive, there’s no mention of past boyfriends or romances in his life; heevidently contents himself with Internet hookups. A self-described “potatoqueen” (an Asian gay man attracted to white men), he has a sexual identity thatobviously connects with other issues, especially his unadmitted discomfort withhis Chinese roots. The strictly professional relationship between the two menverges toward friendship due to complications that involve race and culturalidentity. In one highly charged scene, a bullying, Bruce Weber-like photographercasts racial aspersions at both Asians, which unites them in indignant furyeven as it upends their most important shoot. Advertisement Then there’s the day Ning accompanies Ryan and his parents(Elizabeth Sungand Ming Lee) on a day trip to Staten Island, an outing thatdraws the two young men together in unexpected ways. Though Ryan tries toproject an “everything’s cool” demeanor, and says his parents accepted hissexuality long ago, it’s clear that they’re trying their best to be supportivewhile never being entirely comfortable with his orientation. But they’d neverseen their son with a Chinese guy, and mistaking Ning for a romantic interest,they’re happy that he’s at least not spurning his heritage. For his part, Ningtakes bemused pleasure in play-acting the role of the new boyfriend. The transition from distrust to wary friendship to somethingmore passionate in a movie like this depends a lot on the writing, and Yeung’sis subtle and assured, tracing an emotional arc that’s believably nuanced. Italso benefits from exceptionally strong lead performances. As Ning, Chen has notrouble summoning a star’s charisma while also suggesting his hidden side. AndChoi’s Ryan, a terrific debut, gives us a young man of real complexity who’s inthe throes of self-discovery and (apparently) first love. While the film adheres to the conventions of romanticmelodramas in a way that guarantees the two characters will end up in eachother’s arms, its fascinations from a cultural perspective remain strong throughout.If it can be said that every cross-cultural story like this eventually tiltstoward one culture over the other, one thing that’s notable about “Front Cover”—andthat sets it apart fromAng Lee’s nominally similar “The Wedding Banquet”—isthat, though set in New York, its perspective and espoused values arefinally more Chinese than American. If that’s surprising, it’s in keeping withthe emotional journey of a young man learning that identity is not only aboutsexuality. Advertisement