It’s good to beRichard Linklater. How many other Americanfilm directors can you name who’ve had three feature-length documentaries madeabout them, before they’ve reached the age of 60? One of the docs is “DoublePlay” and it’s kind of a, well, double play: the critic and filmmaker GabeKlinger’s 2013 picture chronicles the friendship between Linklater andavant-garde filmmaker James Benning. I haven’t seen 2014’s “21 Years: RichardLinklater.” But this year brings “Richard Linklater: Dream Is Destiny,”co-directed by Karen Bernstein andLouis Black. Advertisement Not the comedian Louis Black; this Black was the founder of the alt-newspaper theAustin Chronicle, one of thefounders of the SXSW Film Festival and an active champion of filmmaking in theregion (this year he brought a restoration of Eagle Penell’s “Last Night At theAlamo” to BAM Cinemafest). He also acted in Linklater’s early feature “Slacker”and is seen interviewing Linklater throughout this movie. His presence isproperly indicative of the film’s treatment of Linklater as both a Hollywoodoutsider and a regional filmmaker par excellence. The movie is more conventional than Klinger’s: it goes forthe archival-footage-and-interviews format, and one of the early observationsfrom actorJack Black, who’s done memorable work in a couple of Linklater’sfilms, sets the theme: Puncturing the notion of the divinely inspired orpretentiously inscrutable artiste, Black says, “When you see his process, youjust go, ‘Oh, it’s hard work.’” Invoking Linklater’s roots—his formative years inHuntsville, his teen ambitions to be a novelist AND a Major League Baseball player—the moviepresses the work-ethic trope hard. It’s interesting to hearJulie Delpy, whocostarred withEthan Hawkein a trilogy of relationship films beginning with1995’s “Before Sunrise,” say that Linklater himself would never make the kindof impulsive offer that Ethan Hawke’s Jesse makes of Delpy’s Celine in thatpicture. Linklater’s stick-to-it ethos is by necessity pragmatic—as film criticKent Jonesobserves, “This is a guy who adapts to circumstances.” But he does so in order to make art, not to make a financialfortune, and the movie does a good job of showing how the filmmaker hasmaintained his independence, keeping Hollywood at arm’s length while neverapproaching it with disdain. The movie’s strongest patch is early on,chronicling the creation of “Slacker” and its attendant micro-success. SeeingJohn Pierson interviewed brings the early ‘90s optimism about Americanindie films back in a heady rush, as does seeing the clip of our own founderRoger Eberttalking about the movie. I’d have liked to hear more about the“dumping” of “Dazed and Confused” by distributor Universal, and Linklater’sreflections on how the movie subsequently became a cult item anyway. One sequence depicting a fallow period for Linklaterin terms of critical reception features a dopey audio montage that attempts tofloat Linklater upon a sea of bad-review-troubles; I would have preferred,again, to hear from Linklater himself about the failed narrative experiment of“Fast Food Nation.” (Kent Jones also bemoans the reception of the masterpiece“A Scanner Darkly” in 2006; don’t look at me, my friend, I gave it four starsinPremiere.) The stuff dealing with 2014’s “Boyhood” does remind one just whatan extraordinary accomplishment that movie is. And again, it is an occasion tocelebrate the filmmaker’s “Git-R-Done” ethos: To entertain “the idea that there was fear he wasn’t gonna finish‘Boyhood’,” Ethan Hawke says, “was to fundamentally misunderstand him.” Whilenot an earth-shaker, this movie is an amiable and informative look at a guy whois shaping up to be, yes, one of the major American directors of the last fiftyyears. Advertisement