Antoine de Saint-Exupéry’s “Le Petit Prince” has beentranslated into more than 250 languages and reportedly sold over 140 millioncopies worldwide. It is in millions of homes, having been read to millions ofchildren. There have been radio plays, television adaptations and filmversions. So why tell this story again? CouldMark Osborne, the director of “KungFu Panda,” really have something new to say regarding this timeless tale? Andhow do you adapt a relatively thin novella into a feature film that will keepkids entertained and adults entranced? “The Little Prince,” premiering onNetflix this Friday after Paramount inexplicably dumped it earlier this year(and after it has made almost $100 million worldwide) takes the themes of itssource material and expands on them to create a lovely, big-hearted tale ofadventure, friendship and imagination. Without a single pop song to be heard ora bodily humor joke to be endured, “The Little Prince” doesn’t talk down to itsaudience, treating them with the respect that so few American family filmsbother to do. It is a cinematic crime that the abrasive garbage that is “TheAngry Birds Movie” and “Ice Age: Collision Course” get national releases whilemost people don’t even know “The Little Prince” is coming to win their heartsthis weekend. Advertisement Osborne and his team shift focus to a new protagonist, “The LittleGirl” (beautifully, richly voiced byMackenzie Foy), a smart heroine who isessentially being trained by her mother (Rachel McAdams) for the big, dangerousworld of being an adult. She’s trying to get into the prestigious Werth Academyand her mother has her entire summer vacation planned out on a big board. Let’sjust say, in this community in which all the homes look identical and everyneighborhood is designed like a grid, this poor girl is going to be doing a lotof studying and not a lot of playing. Until she meets her neighbor. While her single mother is at work, The Little Girl strikesup a friendship with the old man who lives next door. In a house that containsall the curves and quirks missing from the rest of the neighborhood, “TheAviator” (Jeff Bridges) tells his new friends stories, including the time hemet “The Little Prince.” The details of The Aviator’s stories aren’t nearly asimportant as the themes they convey. As The Aviator relays stories of “The Rose”(Marion Cotillard), “The Fox” (James Franco), “The Snake” (Benicio Del Toro),and others, we watch The Little Girl come out of her shell. She’s fascinated byThe Aviator’s drawings (which will be familiar to fans of the book) and learnsthe lessons that they just don’t teach you at school, even the Werth Academy. Asit should be, “The Little Prince” is heavy with philosophical observations like“Growing up is not the problem, forgetting is” and “It is only with the heartthat one can see rightly.” It’s notable that Osborne and company aren't afraidof deeper themes. It could have been tempting to turn “The Little Prince”into a wacky adventure movie (I guarantee there have been scripts of thatnature on Hollywood desks), but Osborne’s take is deeply emotional andheartfelt. It gets a little repetitive in the mid-section, but the final act,which I won’t spoil, essentially brings The Aviator’s stories and lessons tolife, making the journey worthwhile. It helps one overlook the narrative and philosophical repetition that the filmis accomplished on a technical level as well. Most notably, the score,co-composed byHans Zimmer, is a lyrical, lovely piece of work. It carries theviewer along, fluidly tying together the worlds of “The Little Prince” (boththe girl’s and the story of the prince). Visually, the first act of the film, with itssquare trees to match its square houses, reminded me of the suburban rigidityof the first act ofBrad Bird’s “The Incredibles,”  while visions of the world of the title characterreminded me of LAIKA gems like “Coraline” and “Paranorman.” These are goodcomparisons to make when one watches a family film. It’s in good company. Advertisement Ultimately, “The Little Prince” is a film that everyone should be happy to show their children. They might get a little bored, but ifthey even take away a positive theme or two, it’s worthwhile. And, in the end,adults might remember an important truth about the world as well. Becoming anadult doesn’t mean giving up on dreams, whimsy, imagination or love. It’s alesson that children’s fiction has been teaching us since long before Saint-Exupérypublished his hit novella. And yet in a world that seems increasingly dominatedby hate speech and stories of violence, it’s one that we could stand to learnagain.