A psychological thriller of a familiar sort, Rob Connolly’s “Edge of Winter” does have thingsto recommend it to adventurous viewers: a very suspenseful, atmosphericmounting and sharp acting by its small but expert cast. The tale’s premise is simple. Heading off on a wintervacation, a mom and her current husband deposit her two boys with her ex forminding while she’s away. Elliot (Joel Kinnaman), the dad, is a rugged,outdoorsy type, but he seems at home neither in his own skin nor in his newapartment, a shoebox that he’s landed in after being laid off from his job. Didhe lose his employment because management was downsizing or because he’s toodifficult to deal with? Though the question is never asked, the answer willcome to seem all too obvious. Advertisement The two boys are neither overjoyed nor disappointed to beleft with their dad. They know his complexities well enough, it would seem. Theman has a temper, after all, and it suddenly erupts when one of the boys finds arifle under a bed. But after Elliot cools off, he has an idea: The kids knownothing about guns, do they? Well, he’ll teach them. It’s a fatherly thing todo, and a subject young males should master. For the boys, this not onlypromises to be a bonding rite, but one with a hint of the forbidden: theirstep-dad would never offer it, and their mom would no doubt be horrified. Out in the snowy Ontario back country, Bradley (TomHolland), the older boy, is stunned to discover how strong the shotgun’s kickto his shoulder is. But he and his sibling, Caleb (Percy Hynes White), enjoylearning the basics of marksmanship. It’s an enjoyable outing, up until theboys’ tussling in the car as they depart sends it careening into a snow bank,where it gets firmly lodged. With no civilization in sight, Elliot elects to lead thetrio on a cross-country trek in search of help. But their compass-lesshike only seems to lead them deeper and deeper into the wilderness, and theordeal becomes life-threatening when Bradley falls through the ice of a frozenlake and flounders helplessly until his dad plunges in and saves him. Fortunately, there’s an empty hunting cabin nearby andElliot is able to build to a fire to take the chill off his and Bradley’ssoaked bodies. But the three are still stranded in the middle of nowhere, andto make a bad situation even worse, the boys let slip a piece of news that theywere meant to keep secret: their step-dad has gotten a new job in England andmeans to move the family there soon. The thought that his boys will be taken from him in a waythat seems both drastic and permanent stuns Elliot, and we can soon see wherehis thoughts take him: Rather than being rescued, maybe he and the boys couldhole up out here in the wilderness and live off the land. Wouldn’t that be anadventure? Wouldn’t it be better than being separated across continents? Advertisement Thus, the dad who’s so avid to protect his kids suddenlybecomes the main threat to their safety—a situation that gains a new wrinkleand heads toward a violent climax when other wayfarers happen upon thesnowbound cabin. Director Rob Connolly (who co-wrote the script withKyle Mann)has an understated but sharply honed visual sense that keeps the drama taut andengaging throughout. The story’s psychological crux unfolds in a subtle and believablefashion. We can feel Elliot’s love for his sons; indeed, it’s sostrong that when it flips into a mania that could spell their doom, thatextremity of emotion is credible too. The drama plays well, thanks to the expertlynaturalistic performances Connolly gets from his main cast. As Elliot, Kinnamandisplays an engaging mixture of tenderness and toughness, as well as thedangerous confusion of a man who comes to feel dispossessed. Playing the boys,Holland & White are amusing, sometimes touching foils for their dad; someof the film’s best moments are reaction shots of Elliot’s sons registering amix of bafflement and wonder at something he’s said. Finally, the Canadian winter scenery adds an element thatshould have its own appeal in the dog days of August.