Watching HBO’s “Abortion:Stories Women Tell,” which gets a limited theatrical release this week before anairing on the network, I was struck by how many documentaries on the subject I’veseen in just the last few years. And I was struck even more by the variety intheir approach: “Trapped” focuses on the laws that are essentially makingabortion illegal in several states; The excellent “After Tiller” looks at thefew doctors left willing to perform third-trimester abortions and the dangerthey face to do what they think is right. “Abortion: Stories Women Tell” has a clear focus that's right there in its title: approaching the subject from the women withfirst-hand experience. In an interesting twist, directorTracy Droz Tragosdoesn’t only speak to the women who have chosen to have abortions but peoplelike the security guard at the clinic (nicknamed Chi Chi because she’s smalland feisty like a Chihuahua) and even those on the other side of the issue,including prominent female voices in the pro-life organization 40 Days ForLife. But what’s essential about Tragos’ film is that the male voices we hearare almost exclusively on the fringe: men in the parking lot of a clinicyelling about Jesus or lawmakers trying to essentially subvert Roe v. Wade.This is an issue about women’s rights and so this powerful film exclusively listens to the storiesthat women tell. Advertisement Some of those storiesare among the most resonant I’ve heard in a documentary this year. Particularlymemorable is the tale of Amie, a young woman who simply can’t afford to have another babyas she already works multiple jobs to keep her child fed as it is. Several ofthe people we meet in “Abortion: Stories Women Tell” are in this situation:knowing that their family will go hungry if there’s another mouth to feed.Others are in that tragic position in which they’ve learned that theirbaby won’t survive after birth. Others are in abusive relationships. Awoman tells a heartbreaking tale of being with such an abusive partner that sheknew bringing a baby into the situation would only put her child’s safety atrisk. It’s important to realize, although Tragos doesn’t underline this fact,that every story is different. Money, health, abuse—everyone has a reason, anddespite what pro-life proponents would have you believe, none of those reasonsfeel poorly-considered. “Abortion: Stories WomenTell” takes an interesting turn when it crosses the aisle, presentinginterviews with people trying to shut down clinics in Missouri (which they haveessentially done, sending women who need abortions over state lines to the morelenient Illinois). Tragos’ allegiance is clear, but these films often falterwhen they demonize the opponent, and hearing a woman honestly speak about howshe believes she’s saving lives when she protests abortion clinics highlightsthe complexity of the issue. She doesn’t have any doubt thatwhat she’s doing is right. And Tragos’ film is at its best when it’s interestedin commonality. There’s a great moment in which a woman who works at theIllinois clinic where most of the film takes place sings along to protestorswith “Jesus Loves Me.” One of the last lines of the film is “Do what you thinkis right.” So many people involved with the war for the right to legal and safeabortionsandthose against them aredoing what they think is right. While “Abortion: StoriesWomen Tell” strengthens its clear pro-choice stance by allowing the other sidesome time in front of the camera, it is not an overtly political film. We learnabout the dynamic along this Midwestern border, in which one state has TRAP laws so tough that it pushes women in need to another, and that naturallycarries some political baggage, but it is the women and their stories thatmatter. It is the faces, particularly Amie’s incredible courage and humanity tolet us share a very difficult journey with her, that people will remember. Andthat’s why these films keep getting made, and keep mattering to viewers. As peopledebate the issue in presidential campaigns, it is the world of the documentarythat reminds us what this issue is really about: Women. Listen to their stories. Advertisement