After a summer filled with retreads, ripoffs andwhatever in God’s name that thing withKevin Spaceyas the talking cat wassupposed to be, most moviegoers are at the point where they are desperate forsomething that doesn’t look like it will actively insult theirintelligence. At first glance, “Hell or High Water” would seem to be just the candidate—it is written byTaylor Sheridan, whose first produced screenplay became last year’s largely acclaimed thriller “Sicario,” and directed byDavid Mackenzie, the British filmmaker behind such intriguing works as “YoungAdam,” “Perfect Sense” and “Starred Up." "Hell or High Water" even features a cast led by thenational treasure that isJeff Bridges. And yet, while moviegoers desperate tosee anything that doesn’t involve a superhero may be willing to overlook itsshortcomings, others will undoubtedly be disappointed to find that it's somewhat less than the sum of its parts. Advertisement As the film opens, brothers Toby (Chris Pine) and Tanner (BenFoster) arrive at a remote Texas Midland bank branch to rob it. While there aresome hiccups, they make off with the loose bills in the registers. They thenproceed to do the same thing at another branch of the same bank, and whilethings go a little smoother, the end result is the same. As crime sprees go,these jobs aren’t that impressive on the surface, but, as we soon discover,there is a lot more going on with them than meets the eye. Texas Midland is thebank, we soon learn, that has recently foreclosed on the family ranch aftersome shady but legal maneuverings. To prevent losing the place and all itrepresents (which is much more than initially meets the eye), the quietly intelligentToby has hit upon an ingenious plan to rob a string of Texas Midlandbranches—only taking the register money to avoid dye packs and the interest ofanyone other than local cops—and then using their own money to pay back thedebt. He has even figured out a particularly clever way of laundering the take.If not for the occasional danger represented by the more hotheaded Tanner, itwould seem like the perfect crime spree—no one gets hurt too much and thevictim, frankly, has it coming. While most of the police investigating the robberies indeed failto give them much notice, U.S. Marshall Marcus Hamilton (Jeff Bridges), an avuncularlawman on the verge of retirement who comes across like a combination ofColumbo and Deputy Dawg, isn’t so sure. What looks like sloppiness to hiscolleagues—not even trying to go for the big money—seems to him likeexceedingly clever planning. As Hamilton and his half-Comanche partner Alberto(Gil Birmingham) pursue their unknown quarry, they even develop a certaindegree of admiration for the robbers because of the discipline driving their robberies. That said, this is still criminal activity, and when Tannerimpulsively decides to pull a heist on his own that lacks the careful planningof the other jobs, it yields just enough information for Hamilton to start figuring things out. It also requires an acceleration in Toby’s planning, which ends up throwing things out of balance in ways surprising andpotentially tragic for all involved. The early scenes of “Hell or High Water” are the best. Afterseeing so many meticulously choreographed bank heists that try their damnedestto outdo the likes of “Heat,” it is amusing to see one staged on asmaller and more realistic scale. It becomes even more interesting once we understand that there is more going on than immediately meets theeye. However, once writer Taylor Sheridan has established the basic premise, he doesn’t seemto have much of an idea of how to fill the hour or so between those earlyscenes and the climactic moments. Instead, he appears to have elected to raidtheCormac McCarthyplaybook in order to employ the celebrated author’s sparseand laconic tone wherever possible. Sometimes this works, as in the punchy andpungent lines of dialogue that crop up from time to time (Hamilton has a greatone when he spies a bank manager he wants to talk to and remarks, “Now thatlooks like a man who could foreclose on a house”) or in some bits of bloodyblack humor, such as the moment when the brothers try to take a bank where thecustomers are packing more heat than the guards. More often than not, however,it tries so hard to emulate the likes of “No Country for Old Men” at times thatyou can feel it practically straining from the effort without quite pulling itoff. The finale is a particular disappointment—it is staged and performed aboutas well as can be but the whole scene is just so unlikely that it fails to havethe impact that Sheridan and Mackenzie clearly desired. Advertisement Even though none of them are especially revelatory, theperformances are probably the best thing to be had in the film. The mostsurprisingly satisfying of the bunch comes from Chris Pine, who turns in hisbest work to date in a part that finds him dialing down the smirky charm of his nouveau Captain Kirk in order to play a far more serious-mindedcharacter. As his brother,Ben Fosteris okay but at this point in his career,he might do well to avoid playing any characters in the near-future that couldbe described as “twitchy.” As for Jeff Bridges, he is entertaining to watch—of course, one could count the number of his non-entertaining performanceson one hand and still have room left over in case “The Giver 2” ever becomes athing—but this is not a performance that will linger heavily in future LifetimeAchievement Award highlight reels. Of the various supporting turns, thespikiest one comes fromKaty Mixonas a bone-tired waitress who receives alarge tip from a guilt-ridden Toby and lets Hamilton have it—not the money—whenhe requests that she turn it over as being potential evidence. It’s frustrating that “Hell or High Water” contains so many goodthings that just don’t coalesce into a fully satisfying moviegoing experience. Thestory as a whole is a little too derivative for its own good and not even thestrong elements are quite able to compensate for that. Of course, seeing as how even vaguely competent films have been so few and far between asof late, some viewers may be a little more willing to overlook its flaws—towildly paraphrase one of the key lines from “No Country for Old Men,” “If itain’t a good movie, it’ll do till the good movie gets here.” If only it hadspent a little more time trying to find its own voice and a little less overtlytrying to ape the styles of its influences, “Hell or High Water” might havebeen as good of a movie as it wishes it was.