The title character of “The People vs. Fritz Bauer” was afascinating man whose career as a prosecutor, trying to expose the crimes of theNazis, certainly deserves the dramatic treatment directorLars Kraumegives ithere. A Jew born in Germany, Fritz Bauer had begun a legal career that wasinterrupted when he was sent to a concentration camp in the 1930s. Aftermanaging to extricate himself, he spent the war years in Denmark and Sweden,then returned to Germany and the law in the late ‘40s. Advertisement Bauer reached the peak of his renown in the early ‘60s whenhe prosecuted commanders of Auschwitz in a public trial. Though it may seemshocking now, relatively little public examination of the Holocaust hadoccurred in Germany since the end of the war. Many former Nazis occupied highpositions in German society and officialdom. Though Bauer was accused ofpursuing vengeance as a Jew, he insisted his efforts were motivated not by thepast but by the future: he wanted to educate German young people so that thehorrors their ancestors committed were never repeated. “The People vs. Fritz Bauer” concerns not this trial buta more hidden episode in Bauer’s career that occurred five years earlier. Thetale opens in Frankfurt in 1957, when Bauer (Burghart Klaußnerin a vivid,forceful performance) is discovered passed out in his bath from an overdose ofalcohol and sleeping pills. His enemies in the establishment, who resent andfear his dogged pursuit of former Nazis, seize on this as a possible reason toforce him into retirement. Rumors have it he intended suicide. “I have apistol,” he replies. “If I want to kill myself, there won’t be any rumors.” The prosecutor’s survival means he can pursue a uniquelycompelling case: the capture of Adolf Eichmann, a key implementer of theHolocaust. The chase begins when Bauer receives a letter from a German inArgentina who says he know where Eichmann is because his daughter has begundating the Nazi’s son. The information is persuasive, but it’s also a problem:if Bauer takes it to Interpol or the German intelligence service, it’s verylikely Eichmann will be alerted and flee. Instead, he goes to Israel and presents his evidence to theMossad, Israel’s intelligence service. They appreciate his efforts but say theyare preoccupied with Israel’s Arab enemies, and besides, they’ve had reports ofEichmann’s whereabouts from all over the world; to pursue this lead, they wouldhave to have confirmation from a second source. Advertisement Bauer has his work cut out for him when he returns toGermany, and it’s surrounded by dangers. If he’s discovered colluding with theIsraelis, he can be charged with treason. And there’s a more personal peril: InDenmark, police reports exist showing that he visited male prostitutes when helived there. In Germany, the notorious Paragraph 175, by which the Naziscriminalized most homosexual behavior, is still in the books. These two areas of concern converge when Bauer confides hishunt for Eichmann to a sympathetic young prosecutor, Karl Angermann (RonaldZehrfeld, a charismatic actor who will be known to U.S. audiences fromChristian Petzold’s “Barbara” and “Phoenix”), who in turn shares some of hisown secrets with Bauer. Angermann is an invented character, and the story elementsthat involve him are the only major areas where the film diverges from history.Unfortunately it shows: While there’s dramatic power in the relationshipbetween the two prosecutors (thanks in part to the strong work of the twoactors playing them), some of the revelations about the younger man feelcontrived and overly melodramatic. Kraume’s mounting of this tale, while capable enough, isalso rather staid and conventional. (A sharper, more forceful rendition ofsomewhat similar Cold War material can be found inSteven Spielberg’s “Bridge ofSpies,” in which Klausnerr also appeared.) But there’s no question that thisstory was worth telling. Throughout, Bauer intends to bring Eichmann to trialin Germany, as a way of exposing the whole Nazi hierarchy. But the government ofKonrad Adenauer doesn’t want some of its members’ pasts revealed, while theU.S. is disinclined to upset an important ally. Eichmann, of course, was triedand executed by Israel. Bauer’s role in his capture was not revealed until manyyears later.