To be a black kid in America is to understand intimately and fartoo young what it means to be disregarded, politicized, isolated—all themesthat thread their way through adolescence. To be a black kidfromAmericaliving in Heidelberg, Germany is to only have those issues become impossible toignore. This is the fertile ground on which “Morris From America” builds its sweet-hearted, somewhat slight,and detrimentally too eager-to-please coming-of-age tale. That more films don’tmine this fraught landscape is a travesty. Growing up is so often about tryingon new identities until you grow more comfortable and figure out your own. Forblack kids it's so much about the identities and misconceptions thrust uponthem. Despite the film’s notable strengths, this is a careful distinction thatwriter/directorChad Hartiganmisses, much to the film’s detriment. Advertisement "Morris from America" centers on the title character (newcomerMarkees Christmas) and hissingle dad, Chris (Craig Robinson) as they try to stick together in theisolating terrain of Heidelberg. They find a comfortable routine—getting icecream, arguing over hip-hop, ignoring the weighty memory of Morris’ dead motherthat hovers at the margins of their lives. But their strong relationship isn’tenough to fully satisfy their desire for connection and community. It’s herethat the film truly finds its most interesting ground by touching on howloneliness shapes us. “I don’t need any friends,” Morris says early on. “Everyone needs friends,” his language tutor Inka (Carla Juri)assures. Morris doesn’t have many options when it comes to friends and histime at a local youth center only makes that more clear. Morris and the kidsaround him are a study in contrasts. They’re thin blondes and redheads withnone of his earnestness. They throw insulting nicknames at him like “Big Mac”and “Kobe Bryant” to remind him of his place in their world. He’s a dark-skinned,chubby, hip-hop head. But he ends up finding the closest thing to friendship inthe 15-year old Katrin (Lina Keller), a winsome girl feigning womanhood throughthe usual mix of teenage rebellion. "Morris from America" nails how even minor age differences in adolescencefeel like lifetimes. Even before her motorcycle-riding, DJ boyfriend hits thescene, it’s clear Morris doesn’t have a chance and Katrin is just teasing him.But that just emboldens him more. There’s an easygoing charm to watching theirfriendship develop. Christmas and Keller have a chemistry that feels authenticto the sort of unrequited crush between them. But Katrin isn’t solace from theracism Morris faces elsewhere; if anything, she pushes it to the surface. She’sa bit too curious about his blackness asking about his love of rap, if blackpeople can dance, and his “big black dick” in a particularly cringe worthyscene. Christmas’ performance elevates moments like these as he displays a mixof confusion, desire and embarrassment. He finds notes that the script anddirection seem to bypass—calling attention to how the character’s lonelinessand disconnect from the culture around him leads him to find weakapproximations of what he’s truly yearning for. Although sometimes not even hecan fix a rather misguided scene involving a pillow, Katrin’s sweater, and an explicitMiguel song. Advertisement Even with its keen understanding of the awkwardness of being ateenager, “Morris From America” ultimately has a cozy, comforting tone. Which is a problem. Adolescence has sharpedges to it—it can’t always be sweet and ultimately uplifting. The film's desire to be apleasing, saccharine story causes it to bungle the darker aspects of the storyespecially when it comes to race. A knot grew tighter and tighter in my stomach as Morris leaptinto one mistake after another fueled by the naïve hope of connecting deeperwith Katrin. He soon trips into the sort of teenaged rebellion that definesmuch of Katrin’s identity: sketchy parties, drinking, light drug usage. Each ofthese scenes make Morris seem even younger than he looks. Hartigan wiselydoesn’t veer into afterschool special territory even once Chris finds out. Butthere’s something missing here that I couldn’t ignore. Every black kid growing up eventually hears the same set ofguidelines about existing in the world. How even minor trouble can get you intothe path of the police. And being in their path can get you killed. You have totoe the line in ways your white friends never even have to think about. Youmust be hyper-vigilant to prove your worth and stay out of trouble to survive.Morris acts like a kid who never got that conversation which seems less anarrative choice and more a blind spot of Hartigan’s as the film continues,especially as there are moments where his race is what gets him in trouble. Iwasn’t expecting Chris to ever lay down some overwrought monologue about policebrutality. This isn’t that kind of movie. But that he doesn’t say anythingabout the trouble Morris can find himself in feels emotionally andintellectually dishonest. Sure, we can chalk that up to Chris being a widowerwho perhaps feels uncomfortable with the weight of parenthood being all on hisshoulders but the script doesn’t delve into that enough. "Morris from America" isnot the kind of film that stays with you, but its central performances do.Markees Christmas embodies the tender yearning that comes with adolescencehiding his vulnerability in a slack physicality as if he’s trying to seem evensmaller to the world around him. But it’s Craig Robinson’s performance thattruly gets under your skin. He demonstrates an incredible range in the film.He’s warm, funny, and brings the loneliness of his character into focus.Loneliness underscores his physical presence in the slope of his shoulders, thedisappointment in his eyes, and how the character continues to wear his weddingring. You can’t help but feel for him as the void his wife left behind becomesapparent in how he fails to connect with women and feels just as lost as hisson. Advertisement But ultimately Hartigan's film seems too eager to be uplifting and easygoing. Just whenit’s about to hit a nerve it pulls back into more comfortable territory showinganother slow motion sequence of Katrin’s hair whipping around her as Morrislooks on awestruck. There’s a fascinating scene where Chris discovers someexplicit lyrics Morris wrote thanks to the over-eagerness of Inka. Theuneasiness and casual racism of the event is evident. Hartigan wisely lets usfill in the blanks in regards to the ugliness of this situation. But he utterlyfails when Chris confronts Morris. Why does this 13-year old black kid whosefather works on some minor soccer team write about a hard life full of sex andviolence? The lyrics are a cliché of black masculinity and growing up poor thatMorris knows nothing about, which Chris wastes no time telling him. WhileRobinson adds notes of anger and frustration to the confrontation, the scriptitself shortchanges a moment ripe with possibility. Why does Morris put up afront embodying the same stereotypes the German kids expect of him? Is this adefense mechanism or sincerely the kind of rapper he wants to grow up to be?These aren’t questions the film answers let alone considers in the first place.But the palpable yearning of its characters and the strength of the lead performancesfind grace and power where the rest of the film can’t. “Any human touch can change you,” James Baldwin once wrote. In “Morris from America” this proves alltoo true.