Near the end of the gentle, affecting film that bears hername, Fatima (played by newcomerSoria Zeroual) reads a bit of poetry she'scomposed to her oldest daughter, Nesrine—in Arabic, because she's stilllearning French. The poem is about her life, about facing the world alone withher daughters. “This is myintifada,”she says: her act of uprising. Raising her daughters is her rebellion againstoppression. “Fatima” is a modest but engrossing movie, clocking inat a slim 78 minutes, that explores what that sort of act of rebellion mightlook like for a woman like Fatima: a North African immigrant in hermid-forties, divorced, living in Lyon, in a community that doesn't seem overlyeager to assimilate her or women like her. As such, it combines several currentsrunning through contemporary European cinema: the sticky matter of immigrationand assimilation, the challenges faced by the working class, and the trickymatters women navigate when they're members of both of those groups. Fatimaworks as a cleaner, tries to learn to read and write French beyond a basiclevel, and raises her two daughters. Nesrine (Zita Hanrot), her eldest, is afirst-year medical student far more mature than her 18 years; Souad (Kenza NoahAïche), on the other hand, is 15, surly and disdainful of her mother's job andher broken French. All of them face pressure from the immigrant community, whosees Nesrine as stuck-up and Souad as a reflection on Fatima. Advertisement The film—which screened in Director's Fortnight at Cannes in2015—mostly sticks to the women's stories, though the girls' father (ChawkiAmari) is still in touch with their lives. Fatima brings food to Nesrine andencourages her to study hard, but also to make room in her life for love.Nesrine stretches herself to the breaking point with her studies. Souad playshooky and fights with her mother. Fatima's poetry and reflections from her diary, quotedthroughout the film, come from a collection of writing byFatima Elayoubi, aNorth African immigrant woman with a similar life to her on-screen counterpart.In some films, a device like this comes off as heavy-handed (watching peoplewrite is about the dullest thing that happens in movies); here, though, it'ssomething much more moving. Fatima is not much for complaining, and she's convincedof her own worth, even as Souad slings insults at her and her work. But she issensitive about her relative illiteracy in French. It's a marker of herotherness not just from the French culture, but from her own daughters, whospeak the language fluently and help her sort out confusing turns of phrase,with middling success. So Fatima's ability to express herself in language isimportant, and is another way of pushing back on a culture that wants to markher as part of an uneducated underclass. And in some ways, though “Fatima” is a simple, butstrongly drawn story of three immigrant women from two generations strugglingto sort out their place in contemporary French society, it also boasts streaks of more universal feminism. The women don't go around talkingabout “having it all,” because they're working hard to haveanythingat all—particularly Nesrine,who is terrified to fail in school mostly because she couldn't face seeing herparents' hopes dashed. But as a woman who wears a veil, raises daughters, andworks very long hours while trying to learn the language and culture of thepeople around her, Fatima's statement aboutintifadaisrevealing. For her, the goal isn't tobeFrench,but to resist the expectations she feels from other women like her and carveout her own path. Raising her daughters, on her own, to be successful women whononetheless do not forget their roots—while not insisting they conform to theexpectations of others—is her way of exercising her agency. DirectorPhilippe Faucon(“The Disintegration”) was born inMorocco and raised between Morocco and Algeria before emigrating to hisfather's native France, and his observation of the three women is bothintimate—we watch Fatima wash couscous, tie her headscarf, write in her diary, andfight with Souad—and entirely without pity. Which is of course as Fatima wouldhave it. She is not sorry for herself, and the movie doesn't ask us to be,either. It's sometimes funny, but always empathetic, and Faucon wisely leavesmany of the most dramatic moments off-screen, focusing our attention on how thecircumstances and the aftermath affect the women's relationships with oneanother. At the end of the film, celebrating one of her daughters'successes, we watch Fatima as she slowly reads a list of results posted on thewall. Her smile grows as she registers the details, and in that moment, it'sclear: her daughter's success is a sign that her own act of uprising isworking. Advertisement