“Complete Unknown” has a killer opening sequence. Two youngwomen, their faces tantalizingly kept out of frame much of the time, discuss anew living arrangement for one of the women, who’s back from a long time away,in an exotic location, where, she says, she worked with some “amazingbotanists.” That woman, glimpsed in profile, is recognizable asRachel Weisz.So, too, is the compassionate and competent hospital nurse seen in a couple offollowing shots. So, too, is the magician’s assistant working in a Chinesenightclub in the next few shots. So, too, is the somberly dressed woman sittingin a car parked outside of a suburban house, watching as an older woman drivesher car out of the driveway and away from that house. Is this a woman with alot of careers? Is this a clone? Advertisement Next we’re in a New York office and characters Tom (MichaelShannon) and Clyde (Michael Chernus) are discussing a matter of some import;Tom is drafting a sort of codicil to a piece of proposed legislation, and isconcerned about “fall grazing trends,” and because he’sMichael Shannon, hisconcern is pretty intense. In short order, Weisz’s character is seen doingonline research about the sandy-haired, goateed, slightly pudgy Clyde, andinsinuating herself into his attentions by way of an obviously engineeredmeet-cute in Clyde’s office cafeteria. The viewer will have more questions now:is Weisz someone who engages in some sort of corporate espionage, hence all ofher personae? The answers are not too long in coming, and without giving toomuch away, “Complete Unknown” unspools as more of a chamber drama than athriller. The picture is co-written and directed byJoshua Marston, who’sworked a lot in television in recent years but whose feature film career has adistinguishing characteristic which is defined by the fact that this picture isthe California-born filmmaker’s first full-length movie in English. His 2004feature debut “Maria Full of Grace” was mostly in Spanish, and 2011’s striking,underseen “The Forgiveness of Blood” was set and shot in Albania. The milieu of“Complete Unknown” has an internationalist bent; Tom’s wife, Ramina (Azita Ghanizada), isPersian, and is informally tutoring Tom in Farsi; everyone in Tom’s circle iswell-traveled, as is “Alice,” who comes to Tom’s birthday party as Clyde’splatonic date. This new persona of Weisz’s claims to have just come in fromTasmania, where she’s been working with a newly discovered species of toad.Tom, however, recognizes someone wholly other in Alice. At a certain point, the character Weisz plays reminded me ofa less score-settling version of, well, Alice, the persona-shifting sometimestripper fromMike Nichols’ 2004 “Closer,” adapted byPatrick Marberfrom hisplay. As Tom and “Alice” separate themselves from Tom’s social circle to sortthings out, Weisz’s character explains to Tom that the way she morphs fromperson to person has been a liberation for her: “I could be anyone I wanted.” Achance encounter on the street with an older woman walking her dog (KathyBates) ends in a mishap that compels Tom and Alice to escort the woman back toher home, where they meet her husband (Danny Glover). There, “Alice” gives Toman object lesson in impersonation by passing him off to the couple as anosteopath, and he performs a credible diagnosis on Bates’ character in a sequence that’s both suspenseful andmordantly funny, one that is brought off beautifully by the four expert actors. Advertisement Marston’s screenplay, co-written withJulian Sheppard, is sharp and has a nicenumber of twists. His directing style here is intriguing. Shooting inwidescreen, he often maintains an almost claustrophobically shallow focus, andplaces what would customarily be crucial points of interest near the edge ofthe frame. It’s a good strategy for keeping the viewer a little off balance.And a tight frame also has the added benefit of masking a tight budget,although to tell the truth I did notice when the golden retriever that Bates’character was walkingcompletelyvanished as soon as Bates, Weisz and Shannon entered the Bates’ character’sapartment building. The movie does pretty well as a treatment of identity andselfhood in a social landscape that grows increasingly alienating as it becomes more transparent. But it somehowfails to wholly satisfy. And as killeras the opening sequence is, the movie’ final shot is a disquieting dud: it is practically (color values aside) areplica of the final shot of the aforementioned “Closer.” Which is not to saythat Marston lifted it; for all I know he’s never even seen the movie. It’smore likely that the observation that motivated the shot was exactly the same,which leads me to question the ultimate value of the sentiment.