You could almost hear the boos all the way from Cannes afterthe now-infamous premiere ofGus Van Sant’s “The Sea of Trees” over a year ago.Then again, Cannes viewers have a history of, shall we say, outspoken responsesto films that garnered very different reactions when they finally made the journeyacross the pond (please leave the room if you’re one of the folks who booed “TheFountain”). Perhaps the unleashed vitriol against this high-profile film wasunmerited. It had to be to a certain degree, right? The director of such greatfilms as “Drugstore Cowboy” and “Milk,” working withMatthew McConaugheyin themiddle of his McConaughaissance and undeniably fantastic co-starsNaomi WattsandKen Watanabe. On paper, it feels like a can’t-miss, especially when oneconsiders how much it plays with themes thatVan Santhas often-brilliantlyexplored before. Movies don’t exist on paper. And this one’s a mess. Advertisement “The Sea of Trees” uses depression, cancer and suicide asmanipulative devices to tug at heartstrings instead of offering even theslightest insight into the human condition. In one of the films more lugubriouspassages—and there are several—I started to consider how much “The Sea of Trees”incorporates themes and concepts of other, better Gus Van Sant films. He’s longhad a fascination with the natural world, used effectively in films like “Gerry”;he’s certainly unafraid of what might be called slow pacing in works like “LastDays”; and he’s confronted depression repeatedly, in most award-winning fashionwith “Good Will Hunting.” Maybe that’s why this script appealed to him in thefirst place, but it could also be why he can’t find a way to bring anything newto it. He’s been here before. Arthur Brennan (McConaughey) buys a one-way ticket to Tokyo.He brings no luggage. He goes straight to Aokigahara, a forest at the base ofJapan’s Mount Fuji that’s such a notorious location for suicide that this isactually the second film about it released this year (after the horror entry “TheForest” in January). He works his way into the forest, finds a ledge on whichto sit, takes off his glasses, and slowly starts taking the prescriptionmedicine he brought with him. That’s when he spots Takumi Nakamura (Watanabe),another suicidal man who now seems to be looking for a way out of the forestand back to safety, but he’s lost the path. Arthur wants to help Takumi, andthe union seems to give both men purpose again. Even if they want to die, theyalso want to help each other. Being suicidal doesn’t change someone’s innategoodness. And there’s a good movie in Arthur and Takumi talking, walking,learning and rediscovering reasons to live. Sadly, “The Sea of Trees” isn’t really interested in thatmovie. Instead, Van Sant and screenwriterChris Sparlingflashback to fill usin on why Arthur Brennan is here in the first place, making “The Sea of Trees”one of those horrible “suicide explainer” movies, in which someone’s depressionis turned into a mystery to solve. Stick with the flashbacks long enough andyou’ll know why. We meet Joan Brennan (Watts), Arthur’s miserable wife. She’s afunctioning alcoholic, driven deeper into the bottle by the fact that herhusband cheated on her. She’s also a horrendous caricature, imbued with as muchrealism as possible by Watts but purely a device in Sparling’s script. She’sthe awful wife, who then become the sick wife when she gets a cancer diagnosis.“The Sea of Trees” is a movie about suicide, cancer and depression that’s not honestly interested in any of them. They are merely devices to get usto the third act revelations. Advertisement Don’t worry, I won’t spoil the third act of “The Sea ofTrees,” other than to say thatNicholas Sparkswould raise an eyebrow at the manipulativetwisting and turning of Sparling’s script. The true tragedy is that McConaugheyactually isn’t bad here. He has a monologue about an hour in, during which hefills in his forest companion on the history of his marriage, in which not onlyis McConaughey quite good but you realize how unnecessary the flashbacks werein the first place—hearing Arthur talk about his marriage is much moreinteresting than watching clichéd highlights from it. Although, in this sceneand throughout the film, Van Sant and composerMason Batesmake tragicmistakes. This is one of the most overheated, awful scores of the year,sounding like something cut from mid-‘90s Miramax awards bait when this projectwould have been much better served by the natural sound of the wind through thetrees. Bates’ score is just one example of a mistake in a film thatcontains an easily identifiable misstep every few minutes. Whether it’s a clichédline of dialogue, a lack of confidence in the core of the storytelling, a falseimpression of depression, or the horrendous twists of the final act, “The Seaof Trees” piles on the filmmaking errors in a way that makes the boos fromCannes somewhat surprising in that it’s hard to believe there werethat many people still there to make a sound.