Usually, when a studio declines to screen a movie forreviewers, the reflexive assumption is that the picture is a dog. This largelyturns out to be true, but not always. As for “Mechanic: Resurrection,” the disinclination ofLionsgate to present it to viewers was a little puzzling in a differentrespect. Sure, the 2011 film “The Mechanic,” aJason Statham/Ben Fosterstarring remakeof the 1972Charles Bronson/Jan-Michael Vincentmaster hitman thriller, onlygot a 53% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, but I thought it was pretty okay,and that’s all that counts. Given that the sequel pairs off Statham’simplacable best-of-the-best anonymous assassin with charming genre movie mascotJessica Alba, and hasTommy Lee Jonesthird-billed or so, with Hong KongeminenceMichelle Yeohrounding out the supporting cast, well, how bad could itbe? Advertisement Not good, is the answer, learned at an early Thursdayevening screening. Despite some of the most picturesque locations money canbuy, and some not unimpressive looking movable props (yachts with helipads andsuch) and so on, “Mechanic: Resurrection” suffers from a storyline and scriptthat strains credulity and insults intelligence even by the low bar set by themajority of contemporary action movies. The picture opens with Statham’s Arthur Bishopcomfortably ensconced, à la Travis McGee, on a houseboat in Rio. The steadinessof the houseboat is such that Bishop, now known as Santos, can rock out with avinyl turntable. But not for long. Lunching at his favorite cliffside outdoorrestaurant, he’s approached by a femme fatale who Knows Who He Really Is, andwho tells him her “Principal” wants him to kill three targets. Santos/Bishop’sviolent refusal to play ball is met with an attack by a small militarybattalion’s worth of men. Not only does this action sequence fail to build ahead of steam, but the lack of logic is a little startling. I need you to killthese men for me, because only you can do it, and if you refuse, I will killyou myself. Spot the flaw in this thinking. Bishop of course escapes, and regroups at a seaside villagein Thailand, watched over by old pal Mei, played by Yeoh. Soon enough a honeytrap with Alba as the bait makes itself known. But Alba’s not a villainess. Hercharacter, Gina, is being extorted in a sense by supervillain Crain, a blandSam Hazeldine. If Gina doesn’t play ball, Crain’s going to torch the Cambodianorphanage at which Gina is a beloved fixture. Yes, you read that right. Tending to Gina’s wounds in one scene, Mei says to herpatient, “My father was a doctor of Eastern medicine. He was a healer.” Well,yes, I would hope so. Later in the movie, Gina says to Bishop, “Those kids areeverything to me. If they get trafficked or killed I just couldn’t take it.”Bishop responds, “I was an orphan too.” Wow. This isn’t just a character note:it’s a plot point. Crain was a childhood friend of Bishop back at theorphanage. This wasn’t particularly convincing in the last James Bond film andit works even less here, although if you choose to buy it you may wonder whatit is with British orphanages that make them turn out such efficient killers.There’s also the matter of the phrasing of the dialogue itself. “If they gettrafficked or killed” doesn’t exactly roll off the tongue. Alba is anappealing screen presence (and director Daniel Gansel takes some advantage ofthis with a few beach-set shots of the sort that they used to call“cheesecake”). She is not the most virtuoso actor, but not evenMeryl Streepcould make such dialogue sing. It’s kind of perplexing: clearly not too much expense wasspared in the beautiful locations and blow-stuff-up effects tech. Writers inevery industry come cheaper and cheaper these days; surely the producers couldhave invested some of their financing in a script with moreinventiveness and engagement power than the one they had on set. Ofcourse, this still would have left the uninspired direction of Gansel. Mighthe have delivered something more enjoyable with better material? We’ll neverknow. As for Tommy Lee Jones, his role as a roguish arms dealer is not much more thana cameo, for which he chooses to repeat many of the performing riffs heworked to good effect way way back in 1992’s “Under Siege,” the elemental butenjoyable action film that kind of made Jones into a big star. His work here isone of two pieces of wit the movie has to offer; the other is courtesy of production designersSebastian T. KrawinkelandAntonello Rubino, whoplace a replica of the sculpture in the Mosfilm logo title shot in therepository of Soviet kitsch that serves as Jones’ character’s panic room. Advertisement