“Zoom,” a rather terrible comedy-satire, bears the DNA of atleast two strains of terrible films. One is the kind of internationalco-production that mixes disparate cinematic cultures to contradictory effect.Here the sponsoring countries are Canada and Brazil, and if you think thecerebral chill of the former might be nicely balanced by the tropical heat ofthe latter, you haven’t encountered “Zoom”’s way of turning the unlikelyconvergence into a self-canceling formula. The second kind of terrible film are those which resemblegraphic novels. Why is it that big cartoon creations like Batman and the wholeMarvel menagerie can yield very credible, sometimes excellent movies whilegraphic novels tend to produce overly self-conscious mediocrities? It could bethat comic books create their own discrete worlds which often are readilytransferred to movie form. Graphic novels, on the other hand, generally apemovies in their form and thus end up occupying a space that’s weirdly neitherthis nor that: part-graphic, half-novel, not wholly either. Advertisement “Zoom” interweaves three stories, one of which is animated,but it’s not the latter fact that evokes the perils of graphic-novels-into-films.Rather, it’s the whole movie’s way of nudging the viewer at every turn that thethree stories are all fictions linked to the characters in the others, a tackthat recalls the kind of too-clever-by-half, self-reflexive conceits that seemto be by-products of the graphic novel’s hybrid nature. Like a mutant descendant ofAtom Egoyan’s “Exotica,” thefilm’s first tale opens with a couple having sex in a factory that makeslife-sized sex dolls. (If you didn’t know going in that “Zoom” was partCanadian, this scene would be a dead giveaway.) Emma (Alison Pill) is justtaking a break from her work here, but her real passion is as a cartoonist.Working around so many anatomically superlative female figures, though, hasmade her self-conscious of certain perceived deficiencies in her own form. Soshe scrapes together the money for plastic surgery and emerges with twoenormous breasts. Only problem is, when she walks down the street, men look atnothing else. Distraught, she wants to have thedamage undone, but that will cost money she now doesn’t have, which willy-nillyleads her into a scheme involving stolen drugs transported inside the head of asex doll. The second tale concerns Michelle (Mariana Ximenes), a native of Brazil working in Canada as a model but with aspirations ofbeing a novelist. Dale (Jason Priestley), her boyfriend, disdains her literaryambitions and says that every man who expresses interest in them is really justtrying to get into her pants. That provokes a crisis between the couple when apublisher she’s met has a very positive reaction to the chapters she’s shownhim. To escape Dale’s control-freak impositions, she takes off for Brazillooking for some fresh creative air. But other complications face her there,and some follow from Canada. In the third story, a reputable young auteur named Edward(Gael GarciaBernal) is trying to finish his first film for a big studio. Asluck (or convention) would have it, the bigwigs have told him they want him forhis artistic vision and will back him to the hilt, but what they really want isa big commercial movie with his name on it. When he delivers a first cut that’sa little too weird and arty, he’s in trouble. And that’s doubled by the factthat he’s not able to sexually satisfy the female studio chief. All of whichresults in his being ordered to shoot a climactic action scene in, guesswhere … Brazil. Advertisement The latter story is the one that’s animated (i.e., it wasshot using real actors, but then converted to animation). And if you haven’tguessed already, it’s a cartoon because it’s the creation of Emma from storyone. But Emma herself is also a creation—of Michelle from story two. This kind of tricky narrative circularity is no more cleveror compelling that it sounds. Most of all, it’s a sophomoric game that’s veryobvious early on. It can’t rescue story elements that are fast-pacedbut banal and contrived throughout, with characters that are never more than one-dimensional. Actually, there’s one exception to the latter statement, andit’s the best thing about “Zoom,” which was written byMatt Hansenand directedbyPedro Morelli. Though visually reduced to cartoon form, veteran CanadianactorDon McKellardelivers a very sharp and droll performance as Edward’sindustry-savvy assistant. McKellar’s dialogue, in fact, is so good that one suspectshe may have contributed much of it himself.