Even in the event that you don’t have any interest in JerryLewis as a dramatic actor (which as it happens would be an unfortunate eventindeed), the opening credits of “Max Rose” promise some excitement to thewell-rounded cinephile and/or connoisseur of American popular culture. A movie with an ensemble cast that includesDean Stockwell,Claire Bloom,Rance Howard, Lee Weaver, Ileanna Douglas, and Mort Sahl (who hasn’t acted in a theatrical featuresince 1984, for heaven’s sake) has to have something on the ball. And “MaxRose,” written and directed by longtime indie producerDaniel Noah, does havesomething on the ball. Its ensemble cast. Advertisement Okay, that’s not all, but that’s almost all. Lewis plays thetitle role, and as the opening credits roll out, there follow a familiar arrayof shots of the lead actor in his youth, his face Photoshopped into simulationsof the life of his character, stuff you’ve seen in the pages of any Lewis biography. The only way this isn’t distracting is if you have no priorinterest in Lewis. Once we get to the actor himself, he is in a bereft, almostcatatonic state. His wife of 65 years has just died, and he sits, wearing a redsweater and white shirt, in a grey, spacious living room, one that fills withbuttery sunshine light when the movie flashes back to a time when his wife Eva(Claire Bloom) was present. He announces to Eva thatKurt Vonnegutis on “CharlieRose” this evening, and Eva responds that Vonnegut is a “horse’s ass.” Oh, oldcouple banter. Vonnegut himself died in 2007, so one may be distractedlywondering when in the hell this movie was even made. (2013, as it happens.)Lewis goes through the paces of playing an old, sad man, and briskly conveysthe thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to. Things pick up in hisconversations with his granddaughter Annie, played in alert, appealing fashionby Kelly Bishé. The question of where old Max is to go and what he’s to do isinterrupted, in Max’s mind at least, by a discovery. Going through Eva’sthings, he comes across a makeup compact that has an amorous-seeminginscription at its base. It’s signed “Ben” and dated 1959. This rattles Max tothe extent that at Eva’s funeral he delivers a stony eulogy saying that hislife with Eva was a lie, and concluding “I’m a failure. I failed my wife. Ifailed my family. I failed myself.” This is the most powerful scene in thefilm. Contemplating the locket, a viewer with any feeling for poorold Max might want to grab his shoulder and say, “It’s probably nothing. Forgetabout it.” But the movie’s got another hour to go, and go it does, into Max’sminor breakdown and move into an old-age home, into confrontations with Max’sson Christopher (Kevin Pollak), into Max’s detective work that finally uncoversthe Ben of the compact, which of course leads to the confrontation with Ben.And it’s during these final scenes that the movie, which had been skating onthe thin ice of ensemble-cast goodwill much of the time, finally anddefinitively sinks. I mentioned up top that if you had no interest in Lewis as a dramatic actor it was kind of your loss, but it’s also true thatit’s tough to find a really good movie in which the comedic icon plays itentirely straight. The greatest, of course, isMartin Scorsese’s coruscating“The King of Comedy.” But as conventional and stiff as “Max Rose” itself is,Lewis’ performance in it is full of virtues: he’s committed, disciplined, andentirely credible. As are all the other above-mentioned cast members. They’regood enough that they sometimes make the commonplace material seem better, andwiser, than it is; this holds particularly true in the scenes between Lewis andPollak. But in the end it’s the mediocrity of the scenario that resonates more. Advertisement