American filmgoers who see new French films in movietheaters often encounter movies made by well-known directors and featuringestablished stars. Critics who experience the abundant offerings atinternational film festivals, though, often see another kind of French film:first features by young directors who mount loosely autobiographicalcoming-of-age tales in a briskly naturalistic style. There are three intertwined reasons why these films are sonumerous and so similar to each other. One is that, by all appearances, a chunkof the young French population feels it’s their birthright as citizens of theRepublic to make a movie, and what better subject than the obvious: one’s ownyouth. The second is that the Republic apparently agrees with this belief, andheavily funds movies that represent “young cinema.” The third reason is thatproducers desirous of government munificence—and of helping young talent, ofcourse—gladly rally to the task of mounting such fledgling efforts. Advertisement The fact that France is the capital of auteur theory additionallymeans that these producers rarely have much creative input or control over thefilms. It’s all about the vision of the young filmmaker, and that freedom,together with the propensity for autobiographical tales, is why so many ofthese films feel stamped from the same mold.Leyla Bouzid’s “As I Open My Eyes” is one of this veryfamiliar type, but there’s a reason why it’s one of the few examples headedinto America cinemas. That’s because it was made by a young Arab woman andreflects on her experiences in Tunisia during the lead-up to the Arab Spring—orJasmine Revolution, is it was called there. This political/cultural dimension is indeed interesting andnoteworthy, but the way it’s presented here makes “As I Open My Eyes” feel liketwo films rather oddly stitched together. For much of its length, it’s acoming-of-age tale that has Tunisian characters but feels like the standardFrench type (Bouzid studied filmmaking in Paris and French literature at theSorbonne). Then, in the last act, political paranoia and revolutionary fermentburst into the story, and a different sort of film emerges. Bouzid centers her story on 18-year-old Farah (BayaMedhaffer), a middle-class girl torn between her mother and her boyfriend andthe two life paths they represent. Hayet (Ghalia Benali), her mom, is a kindlybut very practical sort, and she’s understandably thrilled that her daughter’sbeen accepted to medical school. Farah, though, sings in a band—one of PattiSmith’s album covers hangs in her bedroom—and that’s the more romantic roadassociated with her boyfriend Bohrène (Montassar Ayari). Advertisement Not surprisingly, Farah devotes more time to her band andBohrène than to mom. The band (which performs songs by Iraqi musician KhyamAllami) seems off to a strong start, and the same might said of Farah’s firstbig romance. The passion is new and obviously exhilarating. After making love,she kicks the sheet off Bohrène, saying she wants to see what a man’s penislooks like. (One wonders if this scene could be shown in Tunisia, or if itindicates the extent to which the film is meant for foreign viewers.) Curiously, there’s virtually no mention of religion in thefilm. For that matter, politics creep into the tale only obliquely, and later.It appears we’re meant to understand that the band’s music and Farah’s lyricshave an edge of protest, but this is registered only as a very general sort offrustration and discontent. This reviewer was in Tunisia during the time the filmdepicts and remembers the repressive atmosphere and sense of omnipresentsurveillance prior to the popular uprising and the flight of the dictator BenAli. Again, though, there’s practically no discussion of politics anywhere inthe film. This element enters the story only in the last act, when the bandbegins to think that one of its members is a police informant, and then Farahdisappears into the Kafkaesque grip of the state security apparatus. The latter event occasions the film’s two strongest scenes.In one, Farah’s mom takes her to a crowded bus station and manages to buy herthe last ticket on an inter-city bus, but then Farah’s goes off to buy a drinkand never returns. The mother’s frantic search through the station for hermissing child has a pulse of Hitchcockian dread. The other scene, which comessoon after, shows Farah’s interrogation by two policemen. It’s done in a singletake and is harrowing enough for aCosta-Gavrasfilm. These scenes show that Bouzid has real filmmaking talent, asdo the strong performances she gets out of newcomer Medhaffer as Farah andBenali as her mother. When these two are in top form at the story’s climax, itmakes you wish a strong producer had induced Bouzid to toss the coming-of-ageclichés and focus the entire film on the nascent political drama that makes itslatter third so much more compelling than the rest. Advertisement