A low-key and intelligent character study, “Miss Stevens”doesn’t escape from its indie-film commonplaces often enough to become reallydistinctive, but it has enough conscientiousness about its people that itdoesn’t let the commonplaces fester into movie-sinking clichés. Directed byJulia Hart(who scripted 2014’s woman-centered Civil-War-set drama “The KeepingRoom”) from a screenplay she co-wrote withJordan Horowitz, it’s an offhandtribute to teaching­—its titular protagonist, played byLily Rabe, is ahigh-school English teacher of obvious sensitivity, integrity and faith in hercalling. She’s just having a tough time with, you know, life, and this pictureworks to capture that in a purposeful way. Advertisement The movie begins with the slight, attractive Rabe seated ina theater, reluctant to leave after the lights have gone up. We find out what’sthere for her, or rather what’s not there, later on. Hart leaps headlong intoMiss Stevens' weekend mission: to drive three students to an off-campus dramacompetition, where the kids will deliver monologues and perhaps bring homeprizes that will get their school some arts funding. The kids are: the smartand slightly stuck-up Margot (Lili Reinhart) who on first impression seems tohave a little Tracy Flick in her; the openly-gay but not overtly theatricalabout it Sam (Anthony Quintal) and the troubled but also of course meteoricallytalented Billy (Timothée Chalamet). The road trip gets off to a rocky start asMargot criticizes Miss Stevens’ taste in driving tunes, terming the stuff “dadmusic.” Billy digs it, and yes, this is one of those movies in which thecharacters bicker about a well-known pop tune and the filmmakers let you knowwhere their loyalties lie by squelching the argument and letting the “goodpart” of said tune play out at full volume on the soundtrack. I won’t spoil thesong for you but it’s not a favorite of mine. By showing his affinity for Miss Stevens early on, Billy,who’s on meds and also is obliged to take a makeup exam some time over theweekend, first stakes his imaginary claim on her emotions. He figures they aretwo lonely people who can help each other, and Miss Stevens’ possibly unwiseconfession of a recent emotional episode eggs him on—as does his unannounceddecision to get off those aforementioned meds. Much is made in contemporary artassessment of a creator’s ostensible attitude toward his or her characters;speculation on this topic is often irrelevant and/or stupid, but this moviemakes it plain that it truly likes its characters. One way it does so is in itsdisinclination to get them into scrapes of any sort that are too uncomfortableor grotesque (this is arguably a more realistic approach as well, some mightsay). All of which is to say that while Miss Stevens (Rachel to hernon-students)doesmake some baddecisions (such as hooking up with a married male teacher played byRob Huebel,whose thirst for portraying schlubby cads seems unlikely to ever be slaked),she insists on treating Bill as her student, and working things out with himthat way. The film moves from scene to scene with a fluid ease, andthe acting is consistently winning and credible without ever being showy. Whilethe movie’s unprepossessing manner can’t be said to backfire, exactly, itsmoments of wit and observation aren’t sufficiently startling to lift it out ofengaging amiability. Recommended to teachers who want a “this is what it’s allabout” smile or two.