If Edward Snowden didn’t exist,Oliver Stonemight haveinvented him. One can imagine a Stone film about a former employee of the U.S.government who becomes disillusioned with his country when he learns the depthof its deceit. In fact, that last sentence could describe a few Stone films,and so “Snowden” has been widely anticipated as a return to form for thedirector of masterpieces like “Platoon,” “JFK” and “Born on the Fourth of July.”It’s his first film in four years and his first with a true story behind it inalmost a decade (“W.”). Advertisement History will recognize Stone as one of the mostimportant cinematic historians when it comes to the stories of his country,from Vietnam toRichard Nixonto 9/11. And so it makes perfect sense that hewould be attracted to the story of Edward Snowden, the whistleblower whorevealed the scope of just how little privacy we have in a post-9/11 world.Stone made the very smart move to hire a committed, underrated actor to playthe challenging lead role, and the result is a film that thrives off itscentral performance. Some of the elements around that performance are a bitlacking, especially the script, but there’s an energy here that Stone hasn’thad in a few films, as if he's been enlivened by a subject he was destined todocument. “Snowden” actually opens with a scene that will be veryfamiliar to viewers of the Oscar-winning “Citizenfour”—that film’s director,Laura Poitras(Melissa Leo), and journalist Glenn Greenwald (Zachary Quinto)are going to meet Snowden (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), who then recounts the last few years of hislife under extreme cover (cell phones go in the microwave, for example). Thestructure ofKieran Fitzgeraldand Stone’s script essentially alternates betweenthree stories—the story of Snowden’s discovery of his government’shighly intrusive and global surveillance; the story of Snowden’s romance withLindsay Mills (Shailene Woodley) and how it was impacted by his top-secret jobs;and the story of the release of what Snowden knew, as documented in “Citizenfour.”All three arcs have that “JFK”-esque tendency to have even the smallest rolesfilled by recognizable faces:Rhys Ifans,Tom Wilkinson,Nicolas Cage, TimothyOlyphant,Joely Richardson,Logan Marshall-Green,Keith Stanfield,Ben Chaplinand more pop up throughout the complex story. And this story is truly complex, especially in the way Stoneand Fitzgerald have chosen to tackle it. They offer a little bit of “the early daysof Edward,” but it’s not long before Snowden is, shall we say, seeing how thesausage gets made. For those viewers who have not seen “Citizenfour” or readmany of the articles written about Snowden, the mid-section of Stone’sfilm could prove incredibly shocking, and may force a trend of people puttingpieces of tape over their laptop camera. That covert operations run by ourgovernment have the capability to turn on your laptop camera without youknowing it is only one of the revelations here. And as Snowden continues to getdeeper into the rabbit hole of privacy invasion, Gordon-Levitt’s performancebecomes more exceptional. At first, it feels like something of an impression(although a really good one, for the record), but the film works in the way that Gordon-Levitt captures the conflicted inner turmoil of Snowden as the story progresses. He has a remarkable ability to do what so many other actors can’t:look at a computer screen and take in its information as if he’s seeingit for the first time. He grounds a complex story by giving it a very human,reactive element at its center. Advertisement Stone's film falters with the relationshipdrama involving Snowden and Shailene Woodley's Lindsay Mills. Both actors do their best to make these scenes connect, butsome moments feel like they came out of another movie and the pair doesn't quite have the right chemistry to make them effective. I understand theintention—to balance the inordinate number of sequences in front of computerscreens with a flesh and blood dynamic—but they just don't work, partially due toflat dialogue but also because they don’t have the energy of the rest of thefilm. They almost feel like an obligation—a producer’s note to make the film more relatable—but it creates a herky-jerky pace to “Snowden” that keeps itfrom building steam. I’m sure there were dozens of drafts exploringdifferent ways to tackle this story, and I'm not convinced they found precisely theright one. Less relationship drama, and perhaps going chronological from front to backinstead of using flashback structure, might have helped the rhythm. Despite my issues with the structure of “Snowden,” there are numerous accomplished scenes and the film is carried throughout byGordon-Levitt. It’s in his body language, which captures a man trulyconflicted about what to do with the information he’s discovered. And that’s aninteresting approach to the Snowden story in and of itself. In the daysafter the whistleblowing, and even today, many people still want to villainize Snowden as a traitor. It’s not surprising that Stone doesn’t feelthat way, but what I like about the film is how deeply he works to humanizesomeone who has become a symbol for US privacy invasion and the need fortransparency. Working with a very identifiable actor, Stone is carefulto keep this story specific. To be honest, that’s been a gift of his for years,making sure he doesn’t lose the human story of people likeRon Kovicor Jim Garrisonas he’s simultaneously painting a bigger picture. It’s good to have him back atthe canvas.