Who, exactly, hasbeen looking forward to “Bridget Jones’s Baby”?Hard to say, consideringthe odds of it being a worthy continuation seem stacked against it. Take FatherTime, for one. It has been 20 years since the original bestseller was releasedthat spawned not just a raft of chick-lit imitators but also two films,the 2001 romantic comedy hit “Bridget Jones’s Diary” and its inferior 2004sequel, “     Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason    .”The passage of time isalso reflected in the characters. The central 30-something working gal, still asingleton, is now at the brink of middle age. Not that there is anything wrongwith that. But when a certain male critic viewed the trailer, he took offensethat the adorably effervescent star of the franchise,     Renée Zellweger    , had thetemerity to look like someone who is in her 40s. But it does suggest the targetaudience, the Bridget brigade as it were, might be shifting to a more mature,less hip demo.AdvertisementThen there is the physicalabsence of     Hugh Grant    , who declined to return as Daniel Cleaver, Bridget’sformer boss and caddish ex-paramour.As for this avid fan ofboth the first book and film, I can’t have been alone in wavering back andforth between cautious optimism and abject fear that the latest big-screenchapter with its soap-opera-ish “who-done-it?” paternity plot involving two possiblebaby daddies—returnee     Colin Firth    and Yank newcomer Patrick “McDreamy”Dempsey—would fail to reprise the relatable yet distinctly screwball essencethat so delightfully informed “Bridget Jones’s Diary.”Therefore, I take pleasurein announcing that this update on Bridget’s always-complicated affairs of theheart is more often than not a bundle of joy to watch and a far cry from beinga pail of poopy nappies.It appears that EmmaThompson, who remains the only person to ever win Oscars for both acting(1992’s “     Howards End    ”) and screenwriting (1995’s “Sense andSensibility”), assumed the guise of a fairy godmother while doing atotal rewrite of an already-existing script. Some very witty pixie dust hasbeen sprinkled over this enterprise, even if the climatic birth sequence hitsthe usual big-moment notes—water breaking, a mad dash to the hospital,labor-pain agony, etc.Thompson also proves aperfect foil to Zellweger onscreen as a no-nonsense obstetrician who takeswicked delight in describing her patient’s pregnancy as “geriatric” on aregular basis. She also gets points for having her doctor shoo the potentialfathers out of the room when matters get down to the nitty gritty, noting thather own husband always left at those times because, as he said, “It was likewatching his favorite pub burn down.” As for how she handles Grant’s no-show,it is quite ingenious.AdvertisementBack from a six-yearacting hiatus, Zellweger herself is still perfectly attuned—lilting Britaccent, messy pratfalls, lusty dalliances and all—to the role that led to herfirst lead Academy Award nomination, a rarity for a comic performance. Besidesbeing older, she is also slimmer, something that Bridget happily declares atleast initially before pregnancy enters the picture. She even does a sort ofSoulCycle class and proudly notes at one point that she stopped smoking “1,891days ago.”But Miss Jones hasn’tchanged completely, as the opening scene cutely parrots the one from“     Bridget Jones's Diary    .” She celebrates her 43rd birthday alone in her cozy London abode.She dons PJs, guzzles wine, blows out a single candle on a cupcake andlip-syncs to the same pity-party ode, “All By Myself”—until she switchesmusical gears and giddily hops about to House of Pain’s rap ditty “Jump Around.”There is a welcome senseof familiarity in “Bridget Jones's Baby”—but also of the fresh and au courant. It helps that“Bridget Jones's Diary” director     Sharon Maguire    is back along with several key cast members, including priceless comic input from     Jim Broadbent    and     Gemma Jones    as Bridget’sdad and mom (who, inconveniently, is a local political candidate running on afamily values platform).But no returnee is moreessential than the only man in the world worthy of playing barrister MarkDarcy. Who else besides Firth could make being a mirthless uptight conservativeso sexy? Every time you might wonder, “What does Bridget see in him,” he goesand says the absolute right thing in the most sincere way. Alas, how thetwo, who never did get married despite what “Bridget Jones: Edge of Reason” suggested,initially reconnect before hopping into bed is best kept a “wait-and-see”secret.AdvertisementAs for what is new,Bridget is still prone to blunders but as a respected TV news producer, she nolonger seems quite so insecure. Not even when she gets a younger boss completewith blood-red lipstick and a severe hairdo who is tasked with “rebranding”—ie.dumbing down—the show. These segments play like a slapstick version of“     Broadcast News    ” for a social-media-obsessed era, bright, funny and on the nose.Bridget’s friends stillfret over her husband-less status and the ever-nearing expiration date on herovaries—even if she is in constant demand as a godmother. And her love lifeis currently non-existent to the point that her box of emergency eco-friendlycondoms are barely useable. But then a millennial co-worker tricks her intogoing to a boho outdoor music festival, complete with glamping yurts and acameo by Ed Sheeran. That is when she drunkenly stumbles into Dempsey’s luxuryoutdoor digs after previously being rescued by him, Prince Charming-style, anddecides to stay the night.Yes, a pregnancy test soonfollows and the script goes to great lengths to keep us in the dark about theidentity of the baby’s father along with Bridget, Mark and Dempsey’s JackQwant, who just happens to be a bachelor billionaire founder of a popularmatch-making website. That I was invested in the not-hard-to-guess outcome isprimarily because I did indeed want to be in the company of this tangled trio.There is a certainsloppiness to the continuity and editing at times, such as when an undressedbaby is suddenly shown clothed seconds later. But I was mostly enjoying thefact of how this is a rare female adult character in a mainstream moviewho continues to be allowed to enjoy casual sex—in addition to having a babyout of wedlock—without suffering from guilt pangs. Bridget Jones was and is theoriginal “     Sex and the City    ” girl. And it is good to see her again.