DirectorMira Nairintroduced her thoroughly crowdpleasing “Queenof Katwe” on Saturday night at the Toronto International Film Festival by quoting the sloganof a film school she has founded in Uganda, where she lives: “If we don’t tellour own stories, no one will.” That sense of ownership and authorship permeates “Queen of Katwe,” elevating it above your average feel-good biopic and allowingits message to feel not only inspirational but genuine. The story of PhionaMutesi is a fascinating one on its own, but what could have just been anextended “30 For 30” feels lived-in, compassionate and truthful. It helpsgreatly to have not only Nair’s clear love for her country guiding everydecision but also the amazing depth ofDavid Oyelowoand Lupita Nyong’o toground it from most of its sentimental clichés. Some of the dialogue in thefinal act feels a little false and manipulative, but those scenes stand out because it’s been so believable up to that point. Advertisement The nuanced, subtle newcomerMadina Nalwangaplays10-year-old Phiona Mutesi, a young lady who lives in the slum of Katwe inKampala, Uganda. She has almost no possessions, can’t read and sells maize inthe street to try to scrape together change for her family, which includes twobrothers, a sister, and her headstrong mother Harriet (Nyong’o). Phiona and heroldest brother Brian (Martin Kabanza) cross paths with a local sports ministry head namedRobert Katende (Oyelowo). Recognizing that the slum kids he’s working witharen’t going to compete at football, he decides to teach them something hemastered at a young age, the art of chess. It’s a game that equalizes issues ofclass, education and income. It can be played by anyone in the world, andKatende soon realizes that this young girl from Katwe has a special gift,especially when she starts beatinghim. It’s to be expected that the education segments of “Queen ofKatwe” include a number of nods to how the game reflects Phiona’s life, butthe execution doesn't feel heavy-handed. Nair is confident enough in her characters andthe story she’s telling to avoid the pitfalls of repetitive lessons. So we getthe idea that Phiona likes the act of “Queening” because a pawn makes it allthe way across the board, against all odds, and becomes a Queen. We don’thear it 15 times like we would in a lesser film. When Katende explains the ideaof finding a “safe space” whenever your opponent is on the offensive, it’s easy totranslate that to Phiona’s real life but the movie doesn’t hammer it in. Thissubtle touch is undermined a bit in the final act as issues of Phiona’s successand class conflicts start to tear the family apart in a way that feels manipulativeand melodramatic, but Nair recovers by the end. Two of the reasons she manages to get the film back from theedge of treacle are right there in David Oyelowo and Lupita Nyong’o. The “Selma”star is as charismatic as ever, capturing the kindness of a man who saw apotential escape for a young lady and did whatever he could to make it happen.Oyelowo’s work here is subtle but so consistent. He never looks like he’sworking the message of the film more than the character he’s playing. Oppositehim, Nyong’o is phenomenal. She has an incredible ability to convey backstory.We believe Harriet isn’t merely a sounding board for our heroine or anemotional plot device. She feels real because of the intense passion that Nyong’obrings to her. And it’s in the subtle things, like a glance that conveys fear about her family’s future or the different tone she takes with each of herchildren. One also shouldn’t miss how good Nalwanga is here, giving a fluid and physical performance. Advertisement Of course, much of the credit should go back to Nair and hertechnical team, who capture the streets of Uganda in a way we haven’t reallyseen before, certainly not in a Disney film (Nair joked in the intro that itwas the first Disney film set in Africa that doesn’t have a single animal init). From the way Nair and her designer use costumes to convey economic status to how the great cinematographerSean Bobbitt(“12 Years a Slave”) fluidlycaptures a corner of the world that makes it feel specific, “Queen of Katwe” is a team effort. With the combined efforts of Nalwanga,Nair, Nyong’o, Oyelowo, Bobbitt and many more, “Queen of Katwe” makes it clearthat we can’t successfully tell “our stories” alone. To make them resonate, weneed people this talented working together for a common goal. It seems unlikelythat Phiona Mutesi ever imagined her life would one day be the subject of a Disneyfilm. But she certainly learned that life is full of surprises. When itcomes to movie surprises, “Queen of Katwe” is a truly pleasant one.