What we have here, depressing and harrowing and often very real,is the other side of the coin of “Breaking Away.” That movie was a celebrationof the possibilities involved in coming of age in a small town. “Over the Edge”is a funeral service held at the graveside of the suburban dream. It tells aragged story that ends with an improbable climax, but it's acted so well andtruly by its mostly teen-age cast that we somehow feel we're eavesdropping. Themovie's set on those dry, rolling plains west of Denver, where suburbia creepstoward Boulder, and Boulder creeps back. The name of this suburb is NewGranada—an oasis of split-level homes and streets curving gracefully towardtheir dead-ends at the end of the development. The soft plops of tennis ballstick away the afternoons. Oh, and there are kids here, too. They hang out at aQuonset hut that's the local youth center, and if you know the right kid youcan get a deal on grass, hash, ludes, speed, whatdaya need? Advertisement Theparents are concerned about the "youth problem." So are those adultsdelegated to hold the local kids in check: The cops and the schoolteachers. Thecops aren't intrinsically evil; they just know a lot more about police methodsthan about human nature. The teachers are all but defeated by an openly defiantstudent body. Most of the kids, I should add, aren't really that bad: It's justthat they feel unwelcome, somehow, when the youth center is shut down the dayTexas investors visit New Granada, so the Texans won't think the suburb isinfested by teen-agers. Thestory involves a basically good kid named Carl (Michael Kramer), who's in withthe wrong crowd—kids who deal dope and play around with a gun one of them stolefrom someone's home. Carl's parents love him, after the fashion of parentsdriven up the wall by teen-agers, but they despair of keeping him out oftrouble. The only person who understands Carl, in a visceral, instinctive way,is his girl friend, Cory (Pamela Ludwig). Their scenes together have awonderfully understated authenticity. Then one of Carl's friends is busted,another one is arrested for carrying a switchblade, and Carl gets involved in avery nasty situation in which a cop shoots one of his friends. All of this ison the way toward the apocalyptic ending that the movie's ads found promotable. Theparticulars of the plot aren't all that important; we're supposed to absorb afeeling of teen-age frustration and paranoia, and we do. The violent climax isparticularly unconvincing, as if the director,Jonathan Kaplan, thought he hadto throw in a bunch of exploding gas tanks at the end of the film to take thecurse off of his basically serious and honorable intentions. But the plot andthe climax aren't what this movie is really about. It's about the rhythms ofteen-age life, about how kids talk and feel and yearn, about the maddeningsensation of occupying a body with adolescent values but adult emotions. Advertisement “Overthe Edge” does an uncanny job of portraying these kids in a recognizable,convincing way. The screenplay was a writing debut byTim Hunter, who went onto direct “Tex” (1982, starringMatt Dillon, who was discovered in “Over theEdge” and “River’s Edge,” 1986, both also about confused teenagers.) There wereseveral movies released at about the same time as “Over the Edge” about kids moreor less in the same age bracket. “A Little Romance” gave us kids who werecompletely a figment of romantic middle-aged fantasies. “Rich Kids” (1979) gaveus precocious Manhattan kids who probably already smile with recognition atcartoons in the New Yorker. “Breaking Away” gave us kids who are a littleolder, more mature, more aware of how they are behaving. But “Over the Edge” isabout kids who might—who, God help us and them—do exist. On his way out oftown, one of those Texas investors tells Carl's father: "You know whatyou've done out here? You've turned your kids into the very things you left thecity to escape from." Right.