Rarely have so many charismatic actors been used in a filmthat feels quite as soulless asAntoine Fuqua’s update of “The MagnificentSeven.” It’s one of those projects that should work on paper. The cast isperfectly assembled, and I’ve actually been a bigger fan than most of Fuqua’srecent old-fashioned morality plays like “The Equalizer” and “Southpaw.”However, this effort, the opening night film of the Toronto International FilmFestival, too often registers as hollow, an exercise in genre that has echoes of theJohn SturgesandAkira Kurosawaversions, but little of the charm of the former andnone of the depth of the latter. The sheer talent of the cast here sometimesprovides enough depth to get audience members to the climactic shoot-out, andthere are a few definite MVPs in terms of ensemble, but it’s hard to envisionthis film having anywhere near the cinematic legacy of those that inspired it. Advertisement One of those MVPs isPeter Sarsgaard, as thefantastically-named Bartholomew Bogue, the villain of this version. Sarsgaardand Fuqua know to hold nothing back with their characterization of true evil.They practically give him a handlebar mustache to twirl. In the opening scene,after terrorizing the God-fearing people of Rose Creek, he burns their churchto the ground, exiting it like the devil riding out of Hell. In fact, it’stoo bad we don’t get more time with Sarsgaard in the center of the film becausehe understands how to embrace a villain. On the other side of the moral coin, we meet Sam Chisolm(Denzel Washington), a bounty hunter hired by Emma Cullen (Haley Bennett), oneof the citizens of the aforementioned Rose Creek. Chisolm is a man of justice—introduceddressed all in black, riding a black horse. He is the square-jawed and silenttype, which doesn’t allow Washington many opportunities to show his naturalcharisma or leadership abilities. He has a few good scenes of chemistry withhis fellow stars, but Chisolm is too dull of a hero for an actor this talentedand this typically enjoyable to watch. Chisolm assembles, you guessed it, six men to help defendRose Creek from Bogue and his minions. First, there’s the drunk IrishmanFaraday, played with expected whimsy by a very goodChris Pratt. We also meet one ofChisolm’s old colleagues, the PTSD-plagued Goodnight Robicheaux (Ethan Hawke)and his right-hand man Billy Rocks (Byung-hun Lee), who’s quick and viciouswith a blade. Chisolm decides to let one of his bounties live and so the fifth “Magnificent” becomes Vasquez (Manuel Garcia-Rulfo). The group is filled out witha Native American named Red Harvest (Martin Sensmeier) and a possibly unstablegentleman named Jack (played by the king of the possibly unstable, Vincent D’Onofrio). Advertisement As usual, the structure of “The Magnificent Seven” issomewhat beautiful in its simplicity. An evil man must be stopped, and so sevenguys get together and form an unexpectedly powerful team by combining their uniqueskill sets. As there’s not much to the narrative of afilm like this one, its success or failure comes down to execution. And thisone is too often flat. I kept waiting for it to click into gear, to use thejoyful personalities of actors like Washington and Pratt to an end that feltlike it was doing more than servicing the incredibly straightforward plot. Way too much of “TheMagnificent Seven” plods from point A to point B to point C. And one can reallyfeel this lack of momentum when the filmdoesbriefly spark to life. For example, seeing “Training Day” stars Hawke andWashington reunited and given one of the film’s only true dramaticscenes provides some much-needed depth of character, but it just never turns into a flame. Part of the problem is that too much of this “MagnificentSeven” appears manufactured on a backlot. There’s zero sense of period andsetting. Never once did I sense I was watching characters in a story so much as a talented group of actors assembled to create aproduct. The dialogue references concepts like righteousness and justice but there’s little sincerity in any of it. Part of the problem is also that “The Magnificent Seven” feels like a modern summer blockbuster as much as it does an ode tothe Akira Kurosawa film. We’ve seensomany “assemblage of ragtag heroes” filmsin the years since the Sturges movie, and this version of "Magnificent Seven" seems to have as muchin common with “The Avengers” as it does aSteve McQueenmovie. For some people, just getting this particular group ofragtag heroes together will be enough. And, to be fair, we may see films with this structure,but we don’t get star-powered westerns very often any more. The star power,especially with scene-stealers like Pratt and Hawke, can be blinding enough that genre fans won't see the wasted potential. Theyjust forgot to take advantage of it.