IfKim Jee-woon’s fantastically entertaining “The Good, theBad and the Weird” saw the talented Korean director playing with the milieu ofSergio Leone, his latest, the espionage thriller “The Age of Shadows,” could becategorized as a riff on the films ofCarol Reed—there’s a lot of talk ofloyalty to country and double agents working both sides against the middle, and even comes with an extended sequence aboard a train filled with spies. At140 minutes, Kim sometimes loses the rhythm of his spy thriller, but he's sucha confident filmmaker—and his leading man such a magnetic presence—that hequickly gets its back. “The Age of Shadows” may not be among its filmmaker’s best works (Iadore “Good,” “A Tale of Two Sisters,” and the vicious “I Saw the Devil”) butit’s not for lack of ambition or scope. Advertisement “The Age of Shadows” opens with a meeting between a fighterfor the Korean resistance against the Japanese occupation (the film takes placein 1920s Korea) and an antiques dealer. As the fighter is trying to sell an itemto raise funds for the resistance, it becomes clear something is wrong.Before you know it, dozens of police officers descend upon the place and a chaseensues that sets the stage for the two hours to come, in that it’s a situationthat looks horribly out of balance—one man trying to escape an army. That armyis led by Lee Jung-chool (the greatSong Kang-Ho), who seems to be the only onetrying to take the target alive—again setting up his character as someone stuckbetween immovable forces. After the freedom fighter is injured so badly that heliterally twists his own toe off, he kills himself. This will be a film about men willing to die for that which they believe in, and how impossible that kind of commitment can be to stop. Much like “Good,” “The Age of Shadows” develops into athree-character piece. There’s Lee, the Korean captain working for the Japanesepolice, who becomes sympathetic to the causes and the people behind theresistance he’s been assigned to stopping; there’s Kim Woo-jin (Gong Yoo,recently seen in “Train to Busan”), the new leader of the resistance; and there’sthe Japanese agent Hashimoto (Um Tae-goo), who often looks like he’d be willingto kill an entire train of people just to stop one resistance fighter. The factthat Hashimoto and his vicious superior are sketched as near-sociopathic men,willing to do whatever it takes to stop the insurgence, makes Lee’s interest inthe other side believable. It doesn’t hurt that the director gives Kim a minorlove story—he’s fallen hard for Yun Gye-Soon, the heroine of the resistance, played by HanJi-min—thereby humanizing him even further. There is alotofdiscussion of informants and double agents in “The Age of Shadows,” to thepoint that story often gets muddled and the actual stakes feellessened. Kim works primarily in action outbursts—a train centerpiece, thehighlight of the film, puts all the good guys and bad guys on board and thenslow-burns to its explosive climax. By defining Lee’s loyalties as seriouslyunclear at this point and then putting spies, police officers and a ton ofexplosives on a train to Seoul, Kim’s film justifies the cost of admission injust the train sequence alone. It’s beautifully conceived, framed and executed.Outside of that, there are a few extended scenes, but calling this an actionfilm would be misleading. Advertisement While Kim’s filmmaking is typically engaging, it’s reallySong Kang-ho who carries the viewer’s interest. Gong Yoo may get the more traditional herorole, but it’s important to the director that we see this story through the eyes ofthe man caught in the middle. The star of “Thirst” and “Snowpiercer” istypically fantastic, a man conflicted enough to question the role he’ll play ina formative chapter of his country’s history. Everyone here is good, although Ido wish some of the supporting characters had been fleshed out a bit more. Weknow almost nothing about Yun Gye-Soon outside of the love-struckeyes given her by Kim Woo-jin and a visually striking sequence in the trainstation. When her torture becomes a key, disturbing event in the final act, itlacks resonance because of how little we know about her. Although perhaps that’s part of the point. None of thesepeople knew much about each other, or even themselves. “The Age of Shadows” isabout a man caught between country and duty; decency and obligation. It isabout people in a time in which black and white lost their meaning, and everythingblended to the gray of shadow.