WhenPeter Bergfinds a subject he's passionate about,one can usually see that passion reflected in the final product. Whateverissues one might have with “Friday Night Lights” or “Lone Survivor,” they’regood examples of films that Berg put his all into. His latest, “DeepwaterHorizon,” which just debuted at the Toronto International Film Festival, aboutthe horrendous 2010 oil rig disaster that cost lives and stands as the worstecological incident in this country’s history, started production with adifferent director, J.C. Chandor (“All is Lost”). After mysterious creativedifferences forced him to split the project, Berg jumped in, and the result isa film that too often functions like a contractual obligation (and it’s tellingthat Berg jumped immediately to another project coming out in only a fewmonths, “Patriots Day,” about the 2013 Boston bombing). “There had to eventually bea movie about this tragedy, so let’s just get this thing over with.” As is often the case with Berg’s films, it’s technically accomplished, but it’slacking the depth of a project that comes from a creative spark. Everything here feels routine—more like an inevitability than a work ofart or even a piece of entertainment. Advertisement “Deepwater Horizon” is essentially a two-act piece: “Act 1:Meet the Crew,” “Act 2: Watch the Disaster.” So, we get a little bit of timewith Mike Williams (Mark Wahlberg) and his family, including wife Felicia (KateHudson), before he heads off to work at his admittedly very unusual job anoil-drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico. We meet one of the elder statesmen ofthe rig, “Mr. Jimmy” (Kurt Russell) and one of its younger employees, AndreaFleytas (Gina Rodriguez). Of course, there are also a few nefarious BPexecutives floating around, including the remarkably villainous Donald Vidrine(John Malkovich). The first half of “Deepwater Horizon” is filled with a surprisingdegree of tech speech—lots of conversations about PSI and arguments over thehorrendous state of the equipment on the rig. There’s something admirable aboutgetting the technical details right in a film like this one, but it makes for avery dry set-up. We don’t really feel like we’re getting to know the charactersin any memorable way outside of what they were doing the day everything wentwrong. When things get intense later on, our connection to them isn't bigger than a standard hope for their survival. Onenever feels like they’re watching Mike and Mr. Jimmy try to get people tosafety as much as watching Mark Wahlberg and Kurt Russell navigate someimpressive stunt work. And itisimpressive. When things go wrong on the Deepwater Horizon, it’s not a minorproblem—it is really a vision of Hell with water, mud, oil and eventually fireliterally everywhere. To be honest, the fact thatanyonesurvived is pretty remarkable, and Berg and his technicalteam know how to make an effective disaster movie that will pinviewers to their seats long enough that they may more easily forgive the film’sflaws. Fires boom, metal creaks and bodies get tossed around in terrifyingways. It’s impressive, but ultimately hollow. “Deepwater Horizon” too oftenfeels like a relative of “Battleship” in that it’s more concerned with set pieces and action blockbuster stunt work than it is with the people involved.It’s also a film that really muddles the geography and timing of what happenedand when. The best section of the movie is when the explosion first happens,when water and mud spray the chamber, and one can still sense committed mentrying to fix it before it goes horribly wrong. After they’re unable to dothat, it’s too often an indistinct blur of noise and fire. Advertisement BP cut corners, and people died. Now how do we tell thatstory in an entertaining way while also making a piece of art that gives backto a community impacted by the tragedy? Tough question, and one the film neverpulls off. There’s a more ambitious version of “Deepwater Horizon” that goes deeper into the lives of those on that rig (maybe more than just thefateful day would have helped). “DeepwaterHorizon” gets the explosions just right, but it’s everything around them—thepeople, the aftermath, the tragedy—that it misses. That’s the more challenging story—the one that places the fire and oil in a context that allows us to see itsimpact beyond the cost of human life. Peter Berg could have made that film. Butmaybe he needed to be there from the beginning to do so.