Netflix’s “Amanda Knox” opens with a gut check statementabout this case that I hadn’t really considered. There are many reasons that thisnow-almost-decade-old case entranced the world, but chief among them may bewhat Knox says herself at the open of the film: “Either I’m a psychopath insheep’s clothing or I am YOU.” Either this seemingly sweet, naïve girl isactually a total sociopath—someone who tortured and killed her roommate for fun—orthis seemingly sweet, naïve girl was accused of something she didn’t do, whichmeans this could happen to anyone. Either situation is terrifying. “Amanda Knox”does an admirable job of detailing the crucial facts of the case. I don’tsuspect it will persuade anyone convinced that Knox is akin to the Monster ofFlorence, and it undeniably takes a pro-Knox stance, but it’s a well-made,accomplished piece of filmmaking that works because of how it focuses such alarge case down to its key players, thereby illuminating how something likethis could happen to anyone. Advertisement In November of 2007, Amanda Knox was living in Perugia,Italy with her British roommate Meredith Kercher. She claimed that she camehome after spending the night with her boyfriend Rafael Sollecito to find abloodbath. The window was broken and Kercher’s throat had been cut. There wasblood everywhere and there were even feces in the toilet. A year later, RudyGuede was convicted of murdering Kercher—the feces belonged to him and his DNAwas all over the scene. And yet the local cops never gave up their theory that Knoxand maybe Sollecito were also involved. Why? Well, first there’s the way Knox behaved the day thebody was found. She came home and showered before she found Kercher’s body—whichthe police found odd. And she was caught by cameras kissing Sollecito while thepolice were handling the scene. She didn’t seem to be handling the discovery “normally,”as if that’s an easy thing to define for a 20-year-old girl in a foreigncountry. The next day, when she was brought back to the scene by prosecutor GiulianoMignini, who is introduced in the film comparing himself to Sherlock Holmes incase you need to know about his ego, Knox had something of a breakdown,smacking her ears and screaming. Mignini became convinced she was rememberingkilling Kercher. The Italian cops interrogated and allegedly abused Knox untilshe confessed. Amanda Knox tells horrifying stories of her treatment by theItalian police, including being slapped in the head by them and told she hadHIV. And if that abusive invasion of privacy wasn’t enough, the media jumpedinto the same pool, personified in the film byDaily Mail journalist Nick Pisa,a morally dubious fellow who admits to being given Knox’s prison diary andpublishing passages from it and then speaks of “journalistic principles” whenasked how he got it. The media industry turned Knox’s sexuality into a weapon—shewas scolded for her supposed immorality and that was used as the basis for the prosecution's version of the crime. And the number of half-truths and lies printed by people like Pisa isstaggering. At one point, he says “It’s not like I could double check” becausethat means someone else would run the story first. He still sees Knox as a "story" instead of a human being. Advertisement There was almost no trace of Knox’s DNA in anyessential part of this case—and the DNA that did convict her at one point waslater deemed inconsequential or contaminated—and Guede’s DNA was all over the scene.So you have to believe that she cleaned up the scene perfectly but not herco-killer’s feces in the toilet or she committed the crime in a hazmat suit.And yet people like Mignini consistently dismiss these kind of factual questionswith comments about what they could tell by looking in Knox’s eyes. He evencalls himself a prophet in his own country after the first conviction. Thiswasn’t a story of justice or murder. It was a story of men who saw a way to usea girl to further their own careers, as prosecutors and journalists. Again, if you think Amanda Knox is a masterful criminal,someone who got away with murder, this film is unlikely to convince youotherwise. Most of this information has been available before—although some ofthe first-hand accounts of the interrogations from Knox and Sollecito are new.It’s just seeing it all presented in one, impactful film that one can view thescope of the whole story. Whether you think she did it or not, “Amanda Knox” isa horror story that should be told.