An essential element of youth is movement. Where are wegoing? What are we doing when we get there? There’s an energy to the hazy daysof those teenage years that’s hard to capture on film—a sense of constantmotion toward an uncertain future. It’s often a push and pull between what wewant to do and what we’re ready for, as phrased in the song that gives AndreaArnold’s “American Honey” its name: “Steady as a preacher/Free as a weed/Couldn’twait to get goin’/But wasn’t quite ready to leave.” This brilliant Europeanfilmmaker’s look at youth culture in the middle of America is full ofexaggerated imagery of the heartland of the United States—men in cowboy hatsgrilling meat by a pool, oil fields blazing at night, a trucker listening toThe Boss, an extravagant teenage girl’s birthday party—but its beating heart isin a story of youth. Reckless, fearless, joyous, always-moving youth. Advertisement We meet Star (Sasha Lane) in a dumpster, looking for food.Quickly, she encounters a group of teenagers in a nearby mega-store and sees achance to escape her unhappy home life. This group of smiling, jumping, dancingpeople, led by a flirtatious Jake (Shia LaBeouf), offer a way out for Star.Where they’re going to take her isn’t as important as the idea that they’regoing somewhere, anywhere other than here. She learns that Jake is one of theleaders of the group, who travel the country selling magazines door to door.They really just do it enough to get food and lodging so they can keep doingit. They’re living day to day—partying, drinking, and singing their way acrossthe country. There are scant few traditional narrative elements to “AmericanHoney.” There’s a bit of a villain inRiley Keough’s Krystal, the head of themagazine sales group who collects the cash and makes the assignments. And there’san inevitable bit of a love story between Star and Jake, although it’s not afilm anyone could call a romance. This is a not a film tied to plot. It oftenfollows Star on adventures in the magazine sales trade, bringing her back tothe group after random encounters across the country. And it is a film in whichpeople convey emotion more through action and music than dialogue. When they’rehappy, they dance—Arnold’s film is filled with pop songs, many of which areplayed in their entirety. When they sing along, they’re expressing the feelingof community they have created and that they need so badly. There’s a keymoment near the end in which they all start slowly singing along to the sametune, almost one line at a time, until they are all together—multiple voices incommon song. Arnold shoots “American Honey” in her typical full-frame1.33:1 style and it creates a visually fascinating aesthetic. One might thinkthat it would hamper a film that could have so easily taken advantage of thewidescreen vistas of the heart of the country, but it’s effective because itkeeps us with our characters instead of visually wandering the landscape. Itcreates a privacy, a sense that we’re in the van with Star and the rest of thegang, joining them on this journey. And Arnold and cinematographerRobbie Ryanoften shoot their teenagers from below, casting them larger than life againstthe blue sky. Advertisement Most of the supporting cast appear to be non-professionalswho are improvising much of their dialogue, and they’re all natural andengaging—a testament to Arnold’s direction. The real find here is Lane, whomakes her feature debut confidently, never feeling like she’s performing asmuch as living in the moment. LaBeouf has a ragged energy. We get the sensethat he’s worked with a few Stars along the way, and while Arnold never explicitlygives him a detailed back story, one can sense that LaBeouf created one. Jakeis confident but also needs the reassurance of people like Krystal andeventually Star as he probably senses his youthful days are coming to an end. It’sa rich, complex performance. Ultimately, “American Honey” is about motion—a van of kidsspeeding down the freeway. Even when they stop at a motel to break, they usethe chance to dance in the parking lot. We all remember those years when wecouldn’t sit still—when hormones, ambition, and just the desire to see what wasaround the next corner kept us unsettled and needing to move.Andrea Arnold’sphenomenal work captures that propulsive teenage trait as well as anything inyears. There is no yesterday, there is no today, there is only moving forward totomorrow.