Walking back to the carafter a recent screening of “Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children,” mymovie-savvy, nearly-seven-year-old son took my hand and asked me sweetly: “Mommy,what was that about?” Um … er … well … The short answer (whichprobably wasn’t terribly helpful to him) was: It’s “X-Men” meets “GroundhogDay.” The real answer, which required a lot of stumbling and bumbling andtwists and turns, was far more lengthy (and probably not terribly helpful, either).Because even though I’d just seen the exact same movie my son had, I wasn’tsure I completely understood it, either. Advertisement The latest adventurefromTim Burtonwould seem tailor-made for his tastes but it’s a convolutedslog, dense in mythology and explanatory dialogue but woefully lacking inthrills. It’s been a matter of diminishing returns with Burton for the pastseveral years now between “Alice in Wonderland,” “Dark Shadows” and “Big Eyes”(although the animated “Frankenweenie” found the director in peak retro form).“Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children” allows him to show only brief glimmers of the gleefullytwisted greatness of his early work such as “Pee-wee’s Big Adventure” and“Beetlejuice.” The characters here are supposed to be delightful—or at leastinteresting—simply because they’re superficially odd, and it just isn’tenough anymore. Too often, it feels like we’ve seen this movie before—andseen it done better. Although the film (basedon the novel byRansom Riggs) is populated by an assortment of peculiars, asthey’re known—kids born with unusual abilities that make it difficult forthem to live in the outside world—precious few of them feel like actual humanbeings whose lonely plight might carry some emotional resonance. There’s Emma(Ella Purnell), the pretty blonde who has to wear lead shoes so she doesn’t flyaway. There’s Olive (Lauren McCrostie), the redhead who has to wear gloves soshe doesn’t accidentally set things on fire. There’s the girl with a ravenousmaw hidden on the back of her head. The invisible boy who likes to play tricks.The girl who can make things grow super fast. The boy who can project imagesthrough his eyeball. The creepy, masked twins. They flit in and out, do thething they do, andta da!Then they’re gone without leaving much impact. Their leader is thestylish and formidable Miss Alma LeFay Peregrine, played byEva Green, who nearly savesthe day simply by showing up with that vampy, riveting screen presence of hers.With a shocking swoop of midnight-blue hair and an array of gorgeous gownsfrom frequent Burton costume designerColleen Atwood, she has the ability tomanipulate time (and turn into a bird, which seems unrelated). But that isn’tenough. She also has to be extra quirky by smoking a pipe. And the seeminglyregular kid who stumbles upon all these freaks and geeks is the incrediblyboring Jake, played by “Hugo” starAsa Butterfield. He’s our wide-eyed conduit,so of course he has to function as the straight man in such a wildly fancifulworld. But there’s just nothing to him, and the young British actor’s Americanaccent seems to flatten him further. Advertisement You may have noticed Ihaven’t tried to describe the plot yet. Yes, I am procrastinating. Shy, teenage Jake livesin a bland tract house in suburban Florida (on the same street as EdwardScissorhands, possibly). He dreams of being an explorer, he says, but he wouldseem to lack the requisite get-up-and-go. All his life, he’s heard his belovedgrandfather (Terence Stamp, who departs far too quickly) tell him outlandish storiesabout his own youth on an island off the coast of Wales, where he grew up at anorphanage for misfits with magical powers. After Grandpa dies undermysterious circumstances, Jake convinces his parents (Chris O’Dowd and afrustratingly underusedKim Dickens), with the help of his grief counselor(Allison Janney), that he should visit the island and try to find thismysterious home in hopes of achieving closure. Dad tags along to takephotographs of birds and drink beer at the pub full of crotchety locals.(CinematographerBruno Delbonnel, whose work includes the Coen brothers’luscious “Inside Llewyn Davis,” does make the foggy Welshsetting look severe and dramatic.) When Jake finally doesfind the stately, gothic home his grandfather had told him about, he discoversit’s in ruins, the result of a bombing decades earlier during World War II. Butonce he steps inside and begins investigating, the inhabitants dare to poptheir heads out and the place comes colorfully to life. Seems they’re stuck ina time loop, doomed to repeat the same day in September 1943 right up until themoment the Nazi bomb fell on them. The time-conscious Miss Peregrine explainsthat she winds the clock back 24 hours at the end of each night, just before themoment of destruction, allowing everyone to relive that day all over again. Advertisement Doesn’t that sound fun?Are you still paying attention? Anyway, for some reason,all the kids want Jake to stick around, ostensibly because they haven’t seen afresh face in about 70 years, and his will do. But they’re all in danger, yousee, because just as there are good mutants in the “X-Men” world, there arealso bad ones. Here, they’re the peculiars who use their powers to take overother time loops, or something. And they way the stay alive is by eatingpeople’s eyeballs, or something. Their leader is the courtly yet menacing Mr.Barron, whomSamuel L. Jacksonplays with the kind of scenery chewing he coulddo in his sleep. But what they want is never clear, so they’re never trulyfrightening. The supposedly epic collision between good andevil results in exactly one exciting action set piece. It involves stop-motionanimated skeletons battling an army of long-limbed, eye-gouging mercenarygiants at a boardwalk amusement park, and it’s the only scene that vividlyrecalls the kind of artistry and absurd humor that long have been Burton’strademarks. And the peculiar who makes it all happen has the most useful—andthe most ethically intriguing—ability of all. Enoch (Finlay MacMillan) canbring things back to life—a person, a creepy doll—by inserting a beatingheart into it. Unfortunately, though, he ends up being just another cog in theparticularly dull machinery.